The Witching Hour

Sophie couldn't sleep.

A brilliant moonbeam was slanting through a gap in the curtains. It was shining 
right on to her pillow.
The other children in the dormitory had been asleep for hours.

Sophie closed her eyes and lay quite still. She tried very hard to doze off.

It was no good. The moonbeam was like a silver blade slicing through the room 
on to her face.

The house was absolutely silent. No voices came up from downstairs. There were 
no footsteps on the
floor above either.

The window behind the curtain was wide open, but nobody was walking on the 
pavement outside. No
cars went by on the street. Not the tiniest sound could be heard anywhere. 
Sophie had never known
such a silence.

Perhaps, she told herself, this was what they called the witching hour.

The witching hour, somebody had once whispered to her, was a special moment in 
the middle of the
night when every child and every grown-up was in a deep deep sleep, and all the 
dark things came out
from hiding and had the world to themselves.

The moonbeam was brighter than ever on Sophie's pillow. She decided to get out 
of bed and close the
gap in the curtains.

You got punished if you were caught out of bed after lights-out. Even if you 
said you had to go to the
lavatory, that was not accepted as an excuse and they punished you just the 
same. But there was no one
about now, Sophie was sure of that.

She reached out for her glasses that lay on the chair beside her bed. They had 
steel rims and very thick
lenses, and she could hardly see a thing without them. She put them on, then 
she slipped out of bed and
tip-toed over to the window.


When she reached the curtains, Sophie hesitated. She longed to duck underneath 
them and lean out of
the window to see what the world looked like now that the witching hour was at 
hand.

She listened again. Everywhere it was deathly still.

The longing to look out became so strong she couldn't resist it. Quickly, she 
ducked under the curtains
and leaned out of the window.

In the silvery moonlight, the village street she knew so well seemed completely 
different. The houses
looked bent and crooked, like houses in a fairy tale. Everything was pale and 
ghostly and milky-white.

Across the road, she could see Mrs Rance's shop, where you bought buttons and 
wool and bits of elastic.
It didn't look real. There was something dim and misty about that too.

Sophie allowed her eye to travel further and further down the street.

Suddenly she froze. There was something coming up the street on the opposite 
side.
It was something black ...

Something tall and black ...

Something very tall and very black and very thin.


Who?

It wasn't a human. It couldn't be. It was four times as tall as the tallest 
human. It was so tall its head was
higher than the upstairs windows of the houses. Sophie opened her mouth to 
scream, but no sound
came out. Her throat, like her whole body, was frozen with fright.

This was the witching hour all right.

The tall black figure was coming her way. It was keeping very close to the 
houses across the street,
hiding in the shadowy places where there was no moonlight.

On and on it came, nearer and nearer. But it was moving in spurts. It would 
stop, then it would move on,
then it would stop again.

But what on earth was it doing?

Ah-ha! Sophie could see now what it was up to. It was stopping in front of each 
house. It would stop and
peer into the upstairs window of each house in the street. It actually had to 
bend down to peer into the
upstairs windows. That's how tall it was.

It would stop and peer in. Then it would slide on to the next house and stop 
again, and peer in, and so
on all along the street.

It was much closer now and Sophie could see it more clearly.

Looking at it carefully, she decided it had to be some kind of PERSON. 
Obviously it was not a human. But
it was definitely a PERSON.

A GIANT PERSON, perhaps.

Sophie stared hard across the misty moonlit street. The Giant (if that was what 
he was) was wearing a
long BLACK CLOAK.

In one hand he was holding what looked like a VERY LONG, THIN TRUMPET.

In the other hand, he held a LARGE SUITCASE.

The Giant had stopped now right in front of Mr and Mrs Goochey's house. The 
Goocheys had a
greengrocer's shop in the middle of the High Street, and the family lived above 
the shop. The two
Goochey children slept in the upstairs front room, Sophie knew that.

The Giant was peering through the window into the room where Michael and Jane 
Goochey were
sleeping. From across the street, Sophie watched and held her breath.


She saw the Giant step back a pace and put the suitcase down on the pavement. 
He bent over and
opened the suitcase. He took something out of it. It looked like a glass jar, 
one of those square ones with
a screw top. He unscrewed the top of the jar and poured what was in it into the 
end of the long trumpet
thing.

Sophie watched, trembling.


She saw the Giant straighten up again and she saw him poke the trumpet in 
through the open upstairs
window of the room where the Goochey children were sleeping. She saw the Giant 
take a deep breath
and whoof, he blew through the trumpet.

No noise came out, but it was obvious to Sophie that whatever had been in the 
jar had now been blown
through the trumpet into the Goochey children's bedroom.

What could it be?

As the Giant withdrew the trumpet from the window and bent down to pick up the 
suitcase he
happened to turn his head and glance across the street.

In the moonlight, Sophie caught a glimpse of an enormous long pale wrinkly face 
with the most
enormous ears. The nose was as sharp as a knife, and above the nose there were 
two bright flashing
eyes, and the eyes were staring straight at Sophie. There was a fierce and 
devilish look about them.

Sophie gave a yelp and pulled back from the window. She flew across the 
dormitory and jumped into
her bed and hid under the blanket.

And there she crouched, still as a mouse, and tingling all over.


The Snatch

Under the blanket, Sophie waited.

After a minute or so, she lifted a corner of the blanket and peeped out.

For the second time that night her blood froze to ice and she wanted to scream, 
but no sound came out.
There at the window, with the curtains pushed aside, was the enormous long pale 
wrinkly face of the
Giant Person, staring in. The flashing black eyes were fixed on Sophie's bed.

The next moment, a huge hand with pale fingers came snaking in through the 
window. This was
followed by an arm, an arm as thick as a tree-trunk, and the arm, the hand, the 
fingers were reaching
out across the room towards Sophie's bed.

This time Sophie really did scream, but only for a second because very quickly 
the huge hand clamped
down over her blanket and the scream was smothered by the bedclothes.

Sophie, crouching underneath the blanket, felt strong fingers grasping hold of 
her, and then she was
lifted up from her bed, blanket and all, and whisked out of the window.

If you can think of anything more terrifying than that happening to you in the 
middle of the night, then
let's hear about it.

The awful thing was that Sophie knew exactly what was going on although she 
couldn't see it happening.
She knew that a Monster (or Giant) with an enormous long pale wrinkly face and 
dangerous eyes had
plucked her from her bed in the middle of the witching hour and was now 
carrying her out through the
window smothered in a blanket.

What actually happened next was this. When the Giant had got Sophie outside, he 
arranged the blanket
so that he could grasp all the four corners of it at once in one of his huge 
hands, with Sophie imprisoned
inside. In the other hand he seized the suitcase and the long trumpet thing and 
off he ran.


Sophie, by squirming around inside the blanket, managed to push the top of her 
head out through a
little gap just below the Giant's hand. She stared around her.

She saw the village houses rushing by on both sides. The Giant was sprinting 
down the High Street. He
was running so fast his black cloak was streaming out behind him like the wings 
of a bird. Each stride he
took was as long as a tennis court. Out of the village he ran, and soon they 
were racing across the
moonlit fields. The hedges dividing the fields were no problem to the Giant. He 
simply strode over them.
A wide river appeared in his path. He crossed it in one flying stride.

Sophie crouched in the blanket, peering out. She was being bumped against the 
Giant's leg like a sack of
potatoes. Over the fields and hedges and rivers they went, and after a while a 
frightening thought came
into Sophie's head. The Giant is running fast, she told herself, because he is 
hungry and he wants to get
home as quickly as possible, and then he'll have me for breakfast.



The Cave

The Giant ran on and on. But now a curious change took place in his way of 
running. He seemed
suddenly to go into a higher gear. Faster and faster he went and soon he was 
travelling at such a speed
that   the landscape became blurred. The wind stung Sophie's cheeks. It made 
her eyes water. It whipped
her head back and whistled in her ears. She could no longer feel the Giant's 
feet touching the ground.

She had a weird sensation they were flying. It was impossible to tell whether 
they were over land or sea.
This Giant had some sort of magic in his legs. The wind rushing against 
Sophie's face became so strong
that she had to duck down again into the blanket to prevent her head from being 
blown away.

Was it really possible that they were crossing oceans? It certainly felt that 
way to Sophie. She crouched
in the blanket and listened to the howling of the wind. It went on for what 
seemed like hours.

Then all at once the wind stopped its howling. The pace began to slow down. 
Sophie could feel the
Giant's feet pounding once again over the earth. She poked her head up out of 
the blanket to have a
look. They were in a country of thick forests and rushing rivers. The Giant had 
definitely slowed down
and was now running more normally, although normal was a silly word to use to 
describe a galloping
giant. He leaped over a dozen rivers. He went rattling through a great forest, 
then down into a valley
and    up over a range of hills as bare as concrete, and soon he was galloping 
over a desolate wasteland
that was not quite of this earth. The ground was flat and pale yellow. Great 
lumps of blue rock were
scattered around, and dead trees stood everywhere like skeletons. The moon had 
long since
disappeared        and now the dawn was breaking. Sophie, still peering out 
from the blanket, saw suddenly
ahead          of her a great craggy mountain. The mountain was dark blue and 
all around it the sky was gushing
and glistening with light. Bits of pale gold were flying among delicate 
frosty-white flakes of cloud, and
over to one side the rim of the morning sun was coming up red as blood.

Right beneath the mountain, the Giant stopped. He was puffing mightily. His 
great chest was heaving in
and out. He paused to catch his breath.


Directly in front of them, lying against the side of the mountain, Sophie could 
see a massive round stone.
It was as big as a house. The Giant reached out and rolled the stone to one 
side as easily as if it had been
a football, and now, where the stone had been, there appeared a vast black 
hole. The hole was so large
the Giant didn't even have to duck his head as he went in. He strode into the 
black hole still carrying
Sophie in one hand, the trumpet and the suitcase in the other.

As soon as he was inside, he stopped and turned and rolled the great stone back 
into place so that the
entrance to his secret cave was completely hidden from outside.

Now that the entrance had been sealed up, there was not a glint of light inside 
the cave. All was black.

Sophie felt herself being lowered to the ground. Then the Giant let go the 
blanket completely. His
footsteps moved away. Sophie sat there in the dark, shivering with fear.

He is getting ready to eat me, she told herself. He will probably eat me raw, 
just as I am.
Or perhaps he will boil me first.

Or he will have me fried. He will drop me like a rasher of bacon into some 
gigantic frying-pan sizzling
with fat.

A blaze of light suddenly lit up the whole place. Sophie blinked and stared.
She saw an enormous cavern with a high rocky roof.

The walls on either side were lined with shelves, and on the shelves there 
stood row upon row of glass
jars. There were jars everywhere. They were piled up in the corners. They 
filled every nook and cranny
of the cave.

In the middle of the floor there was a table twelve feet high and a chair to 
match.


The Giant took off his black cloak and hung it against the wall. Sophie saw 
that under the cloak he was
wearing a sort of collarless shirt and a dirty old leather waistcoat that 
didn't seem to have any buttons.
His trousers were faded green and were far too short in the legs. On his bare 
feet he was wearing a pair
of ridiculous sandals that for some reason had holes cut along each side, with 
a large hole at the end
where his toes stuck out. Sophie, crouching on the floor of the cave in her 
nightie, gazed back at him
through thick steel-rimmed glasses. She was trembling like a leaf in the wind, 
and a finger of ice was
running up and down the length of her spine.

'Ha!' shouted the Giant, walking forward and rubbing his hands together. 'What 
has us got here?' His
booming voice rolled around the walls of the cave like a burst of thunder.


The BFG

The Giant picked up the trembling Sophie with one hand and carried her across 
the cave and put her on
the table.

Now he really is going to eat me, Sophie thought.

The Giant sat down and stared hard at Sophie. He had truly enormous ears. Each 
one was as big as the
wheel of a truck and he seemed to be able to move them inwards and outwards 
from his head as he
wished.

'I is hungry!' the Giant boomed. He grinned, showing massive square teeth. The 
teeth were very white
and very square and they sat in his mouth like huge slices of white bread.

'P ... please don't eat me,' Sophie stammered.

The Giant let out a bellow of laughter. 'Just because I is a giant, you think I 
is a man-gobbling cannybull!'
he shouted. 'You is about right! Giants is all cannybully and murderful! And 
they does gobble up human
beans! We is in Giant Country now! Giants is everywhere around! Out there us 
has the famous
Bonecrunching Giant! Bonecrunching Giant crunches up two wopsey whiffling human 
beans for supper
every      night! Noise is earbursting! Noise of crunching bones goes 
crackety-crack for miles around!'

'Owch!' Sophie said.

'Bonecrunching Giant only gobbles human beans from Turkey,' the Giant said. 
'Every night Bonecruncher
is galloping off to Turkey to gobble Turks.'

Sophie's sense of patriotism was suddenly so bruised by this remark that she 
became quite angry. 'Why
Turks?' she blurted out. 'What's wrong with the English?'

'Bonecrunching Giant says Turks is tasting oh ever so much juicier and more 
scrumdiddlyumptious!
Bonecruncher says Turkish human beans has a glamourly flavour. He says Turks 
from Turkey is tasting of
turkey.'

'I suppose they would,' Sophie said.

'Of course they would!' the Giant shouted. 'Every human bean is diddly and 
different. Some is
scrumdiddlyumptious and some is uckyslush. Greeks is all full of uckyslush. No 
giant is eating Greeks,
ever.'

'Why not?' Sophie asked.

'Greeks from Greece is all tasting greasy,' the Giant said.


'I imagine that's possible too,' Sophie said. She was wondering with a bit of a 
tremble what all this
talking about eating people was leading up to. Whatever happened, she simply 
must play along with this
peculiar giant and smile at his jokes.

But were they jokes? Perhaps the great brute was just working up an appetite by 
talking about food.

'As I am saying,' the Giant went on, 'all human beans is having different 
flavours. Human beans from
Panama is tasting very strong of hats.'

'Why hats?' Sophie said.


'You is not very clever,' the Giant said, moving his great ears in and out. 'I 
thought all human beans is full
of brains, but your head is emptier than a bundongle.'

'Do you like vegetables?' Sophie asked, hoping to steer the conversation 
towards a slightly less
dangerous kind of food.

'You is trying to change the subject,' the Giant said sternly. 'We is having an 
interesting babblement
about the taste of the human bean. The human bean is not a vegetable.'

'Oh, but the bean is a vegetable,' Sophie said.

'Not the human bean,' the Giant said. 'The human bean has two legs and a 
vegetable has no legs at all.'
Sophie didn't argue any more. The last thing she wanted to do was to make the 
Giant cross.

'The human bean,' the Giant went on, 'is coming in dillions of different 
flavours. For instance, human
beans from Wales is tasting very whooshey of fish. There is something very 
fishy about Wales.'

'You means whales,' Sophie said. 'Wales is something quite different.'

'Wales is whales,' the Giant said. 'Don't gobblefunk around with words. I will 
now give you another
example. Human beans from Jersey has a most disgustable woolly tickle on the 
tongue,' the Giant said.
'Human beans from Jersey is tasting of cardigans.'

'You mean jerseys,' Sophie said.


'You are once again gobblefunking!' the Giant shouted. 'Don't do it! This is a 
serious and snitching sub-
ject. May I continue?'

'Please do,' Sophie said.

'Danes from Denmark is tasting ever so much of dogs,' the Giant went on.
'Of course,' Sophie said. 'They taste of great danes.'

'Wrong!' cried the Giant, slapping his thigh. 'Danes from Denmark is tasting 
doggy because they is
tasting of labradors!'

'Then what do the people of Labrador taste of?' Sophie asked.
'Danes,' the Giant cried, triumphantly. 'Great danes!'

'Aren't you getting a bit mixed up?' Sophie said.

'I is a very mixed up Giant,' the Giant said. 'But I does do my best. And I is 
not nearly as mixed up as the
other giants. I know one who gallops all the way to Wellington for his supper.'

'Wellington?' Sophie said. 'Where is Wellington?'

'Your head is full of squashed flies,' the Giant said. 'Wellington is in New 
Zealand. The human beans in
Wellington has an especially scrumdiddlyumptious taste, so says the 
Welly-eating Giant.'

'What do the people of Wellington taste of?' Sophie asked.
'Boots,' the Giant said.

'Of course,' Sophie said. 'I should have known.'

Sophie decided that this conversation had now gone on long enough. If she was 
going to be eaten, she'd
rather get it over and done with right away than be kept hanging around any 
more. 'What sort of human
beings do you eat?' she asked, trembling.

'Me!' shouted the Giant, his mighty voice making the glass jars rattle on their 
shelves. 'Me gobbling up
human beans! This I never! The others, yes! All the others is gobbling them up 
every night, but not me! I
is      a freaky Giant! I is a nice and jumbly Giant! I is the only nice and 
jumbly Giant in Giant Country! I is THE
BIG FRIENDLY GIANT! I is the BFG. What is your name?'

'My name is Sophie,' Sophie said, hardly daring to believe the good news she 
had just heard.


The Giants

'But if you are so nice and friendly,' Sophie said, 'then why did you snatch me 
from my bed and run away
with me?'

'Because you SAW me,' the Big Friendly Giant answered. 'If anyone is ever 
SEEING a giant, he or she must
be taken away hipswitch.'

'Why?' asked Sophie.

'Well, first of all,' said the BFG, 'human beans is not really believing in 
giants, is they? Human beans is
not thinking we exist.'

'I do,' Sophie said.

'Ah, but that is only because you has SEEN me!' cried the BFG. 'I cannot 
possibly allow anyone, even little
girls, to be SEEING me and staying at home. The first thing you would be doing, 
you would be scuddling
around yodelling the news that you were actually SEEING a giant, and then a 
great giant-hunt, a mighty
giant look-see, would be starting up all over the world, with the human beans 
all rummaging for the
great giant you saw and getting wildly excited. People would be coming rushing 
and bushing after me
with goodness knows what and they would be catching me and locking me into a 
cage to be stared at.
They would be putting me into the zoo or the bunkumhouse with all those 
squiggling hippodumplings
and crocadowndillies.'

Sophie knew that what the Giant said was true. If any person reported actually 
having seen a giant
haunting the streets of a town at night, there would most certainly be a 
terrific hullabaloo across the
world.

'I will bet you,' the BFG went on, 'that you would have been splashing the news 
all over the wonky
world, wouldn't you, if I hadn't wiggled you away?'

'I suppose I would,' Sophie said.


'And that would never do,' said the BFG.

'So what will happen to me now?' Sophie asked.

'If you do go back, you will be telling the world,' said the BFG, 'most likely 
on the telly-telly bunkum box
and the radio squeaker. So you will just have to be staying here with me for 
the rest of your life.'

'Oh no!' cried Sophie.

'Oh yes!' said the BFG. 'But I am warning you not ever to go whiffling about 
out of this cave without I is
with you or you will be coming to an ucky-mucky end! I is showing you now who 
is going to eat you up if
they is ever catching even one tiny little glimp of you.'

The Big Friendly Giant picked Sophie off the table and carried her to the cave 
entrance. He rolled the
huge stone to one side and said, 'Peep out over there, little girl, and tell me 
what you is seeing.'

Sophie, sitting on the BFG's hand, peeped out of the cave.

The sun was up now and shining fiery-hot over the great yellow wasteland with 
its blue rocks and dead
trees.

'Is you seeing them?' the BFG asked.

Sophie, squinting through the glare of the sun, saw several tremendous tall 
figures moving among the
rocks about five hundred yards away. Three or four others were sitting quite 
motionless on the rocks
themselves.

'This is Giant Country,' the BFG said. 'Those is all giants, every one.'

It was a brain-boggling sight. The giants were all naked except for a sort of 
short skirt around their
waists, and their skins were burnt brown by the sun. But it was the sheer size 
of each one of them that


boggled Sophie's brain most of all. They were simply colossal, far taller and 
wider than the Big Friendly
Giant upon whose hand she was now sitting. And oh how ugly they were! Many of 
them had large
bellies. All of them had long arms and big feet. They were too far away for 
their faces to be seen clearly,
and perhaps that was a good thing.

'What on earth are they doing?' Sophie asked.

'Nothing,' said the BFG. 'They is just moocheling and footcheling around and 
waiting for the night to
come. Then they will all be galloping off to places where people is living to 
find their suppers.'

'You mean to Turkey,' Sophie said.

'Bonecrunching Giant will be galloping to Turkey, of course,' said the BFG. 
'But the others will be
whiffling off to all sorts of flungaway places like Wellington for the booty 
flavour and Panama for the
hatty taste. Every giant is having his own favourite hunting ground.'

'Do they ever go to England?' Sophie asked.

'Often,' said the BFG. 'They say the English is tasting ever so wonderfully of 
crodscollop.'
'I'm not sure I quite know what that means,' Sophie said.

'Meanings is not important,' said the BFG. 'I cannot be right all the time. 
Quite often I is left instead of
right.'

'And are all those beastly giants over there really going off again tonight to 
eat people?' Sophie asked.

'All of them is guzzling human beans every night,' the BFG answered. 'All of 
them excepting me. That is
why you will be coming to an ucky-mucky end if any of them should ever be 
getting his gogglers upon
you. You would be swalloped up like a piece of frumpkin pie, all in one 
dollop!'

'But eating people is horrible!' Sophie cried. 'It's frightful! Why doesn't 
someone stop them?'
'And who please is going to be stopping them?' asked the BFG.

'Couldn't you?' said Sophie.

'Never in a pig's whistle!' cried the BFG. 'All of those man-eating giants is 
enormous and very fierce!
They is all at least two times my wideness and double my royal highness!'

'Twice as high as you!' cried Sophie.

'Easily that,' said the BFG. 'You is seeing them in the distance but just wait 
till you get them close up.
Those giants is all at least fifty feet tall with huge muscles and cockles 
alive alive-o. I is the titchy one. I is
the runt. Twenty-four feet is puddlenuts in Giant Country.'

'You mustn't feel bad about it,' Sophie said. 'I think you are just great. Why 
even your toes must be as
big as sausages.'


'Bigger,' said the BFG, looking pleased. 'They is as big as bumplehammers.'
'How many giants are there out there?' Sophie asked.

'Nine altogether,' answered the BFG.

'That means,' said Sophie, 'that somewhere in the world, every single night, 
nine wretched people get
carried away and eaten alive.'

'More,' said the BFG. 'It is all depending, you see, on how big the human beans 
is. Japanese beans is very
small, so a giant will need to gobble up about six Japanese before he is 
feeling full up. Others like the
Norway people and the Yankee-Doodles is ever so much bigger and usually two or 
three of those makes
a good tuck-in.'

'But do these disgusting giants go to every single country in the world?' 
Sophie asked.

'All countries excepting Greece is getting visited some time or another,' the 
BFG answered. 'The country
which a giant visits is depending on how he is feeling. If it is very warm 
weather and a giant is feeling as
hot as a sizzlepan, he will probably go galloping far up to the frisby north to 
get himself an Esquimo or
two to cool him down. A nice fat Esquimo to a giant is like a lovely ice-cream 
lolly to you.'

'I'll take your word for it,' Sophie said.

'And then again, if it is a frotsy night and the giant is fridging with cold, 
he will probably point his nose
towards the swultering hotlands to guzzle a few Hottentots to warm him up.'

'How perfectly horrible,' Sophie said.

'Nothing hots a cold giant up like a hot Hottentot,' the BFG said.


'And if you were to put me down on the ground and I was to walk out among them 
now,' Sophie said,
'would they really eat me up?'

'Like a whiffswiddle!' cried the BFG. 'And what is more, you is so small they 
wouldn't even have to chew
you. The first one to be seeing you would pick you up in his fingers and down 
you'd go like a drop of
drain-water!'

'Let's go back inside,' Sophie said. 'I hate even watching them.'


The Marvellous Ears

Back in the cave, the Big Friendly Giant sat Sophie down once again on the 
enormous table. 'Is you quite
snuggly there in your nightie?' he asked. 'You isn't fridgy cold?'

'I'm fine,' Sophie said.

'I cannot help thinking,' said the BFG, 'about your poor mother and father. By 
now they must be jipping
and skumping all over the house shouting "Hello hello where is Sophie gone?"'

'I don't have a mother and father,' Sophie said. 'They both died when I was a 
baby.'
'Oh, you poor little scrumplet!' cried the BFG. 'Is you not missing them very 
badly?'
'Not really,' Sophie said, 'because I never knew them.'

'You is making me sad,' the BFG said, rubbing his eyes.

'Don't be sad,' Sophie said. 'No one is going to be worrying too much about me. 
That place you took me
from was the village orphanage. We are all orphans in there.'

'You is a norphan?'
'Yes.'

'How many is there in there?'

'Ten of us,' Sophie said. 'All little girls.'
'Was you happy there?' the BFG asked.

'I hated it,' Sophie said. 'The woman who ran it was called Mrs Clonkers and if 
she caught you breaking
any of the rules, like getting out of bed at night or not folding up your 
clothes, you got punished.'

'How is you getting punished?'

'She locked us in the dark cellar for a day and a night without anything to eat 
or drink.'
'The rotten old rotrasper!' cried the BFG.

'It was horrid,' Sophie said. 'We used to dread it. There were rats down there. 
We could hear them
creeping about.'

'The filthy old fizzwiggler!' shouted the BFG. 'That is the horridest thing I 
is hearing for years! You is
making me sadder than ever!' All at once, a huge tear that would have filled a 
bucket rolled down one of
the BFG's cheeks and fell with a splash on the floor. It made quite a puddle.


Sophie watched with astonishment. What a strange and moody creature this is, 
she thought. One
moment he is telling me my head is full of squashed flies and the next moment 
his heart is melting for
me because Mrs Clonkers locks us in the cellar.

'The thing that worries me,' Sophie said, 'is having to stay in this dreadful 
place for the rest of my life.
The orphanage was pretty awful, but I wouldn't have been there for ever, would 
I?'

'All is my fault,' the BFG said. 'I is the one who kidsnatched you.' Yet 
another enormous tear welled from
his eye and splashed on to the floor.

'Now I come to think of it, I won't actually be here all that long,' Sophie 
said.
'I is afraid you will,' the BFG said.

'No, I won't,' Sophie said. 'Those brutes out there are bound to catch me 
sooner or later and have me
for tea.'

'I is never letting that happen,' the BFG said.

For a few moments the cave was silent. Then Sophie said, 'May I ask you a 
question?'

The BFG wiped the tears from his eyes with the back of his hand and gave Sophie 
a long thoughtful
stare. 'Shoot away,' he said.

'Would you please tell me what you were doing in our village last night? Why 
were you poking that long
trumpet thing into the Goochey children's bedroom and then blowing through it?'

'Ah-ha!' cried the BFG, sitting up suddenly in his chair. 'Now we is getting 
nosier than a parker!'
'And the suitcase you were carrying,' Sophie said. 'What on earth was that all 
about?'

The BFG stared suspiciously at the small girl sitting cross-legged on the 
table.

'You is asking me to tell you whoppsy big secrets,' he said. 'Secrets that 
nobody is ever hearing before.'
'I won't tell a soul,' Sophie said. 'I swear it. How could I anyway? I am stuck 
here for the rest of my life.'
'You could be telling the other giants.'

'No, I couldn't,' Sophie said. 'You told me they would eat me up the moment 
they saw me.'

'And so they would,' said the BFG. 'You is a human bean and human beans is like 
strawbunkles and
cream to those giants.'

'If they are going to eat me the moment they see me, then I wouldn't have time 
to tell them anything,
would I?' Sophie said.

'You wouldn't,' said the BFG.


'Then why did you say I might?'

'Because I is brimful of buzzburgers,' the BFG said. 'If you listen to 
everything I am saying you will be
getting earache.'

'Please tell me what you were doing in our village,' Sophie said. 'I promise 
you can trust me.'
'Would you teach me how to make an elefunt?' the BFG asked.

'What do you mean?' Sophie said.

'I would dearly love to have an elefunt to ride on,' the BFG said dreamily. 'I 
would so much love to have
a jumbly big elefunt and go riding through green forests picking peachy fruits 
off the trees all day long.
This is a sizzling-hot muckfrumping country we is living in. Nothing grows in 
it except snozzcumbers. I
would love to go somewhere else and pick peachy fruits in the early morning 
from the back of an
elefunt.'

Sophie was quite moved by this curious statement.

'Perhaps one day we will get you an elephant,' she said. 'And peachy fruits as 
well. Now tell me what
you were doing in our village.'

'If you is really wanting to know what I am doing in your village,' the BFG 
said, 'I is blowing a dream into
the bedroom of those children.'

'Blowing a dream?' Sophie said. 'What do you mean?'

'I is a dream-blowing giant,' the BFG said. 'When all the other giants is 
galloping off every what way and
which to swollop human beans, I is scuddling away to other places to blow 
dreams into the bedrooms of
sleeping children. Nice dreams. Lovely golden dreams. Dreams that is giving the 
dreamers a happy time.'

'Now hang on a minute,' Sophie said. 'Where do you get these dreams?'

'I collect them,' the BFG said, waving an arm towards all the rows and rows of 
bottles on the shelves. 'I
has billions of them.'

'You can't collect a dream,' Sophie said. 'A dream isn't something you can 
catch hold of.'

'You is never going to understand about it,' the BFG said. 'That is why I is 
not wishing to tell you.'

'Oh, please tell me!' Sophie said. 'I will understand! Go on! Tell me how you 
collect dreams! Tell me
everything!'

The BFG settled himself comfortably in his chair and crossed his legs. 
'Dreams,' he said, 'is very
mysterious things. They is floating around in the air like little wispy-misty 
bubbles. And all the time they
is searching for sleeping people.'

'Can you see them?' Sophie asked.


'Never at first.'

'Then how do you catch them if you can't see them?' Sophie asked.

'Ah-ha,' said the BFG. 'Now we is getting on to the dark and dusky secrets.'
'I won't tell a soul.'

'I is trusting you,' the BFG said. He closed his eyes and sat quite still for a 
moment, while Sophie waited.

'A dream,' he said, 'as it goes whiffling through the night air, is making a 
tiny little buzzing-humming
noise. But this little buzzy-hum is so silvery soft, it is impossible for a 
human bean to be hearing it.'

'Can you hear it?' Sophie asked.

The BFG pointed up at his enormous truck-wheel ears which he now began to move 
in and out. He
performed this exercise proudly, with a little proud smile on his face. 'Is you 
seeing these?' he asked.

'How could I miss them?' Sophie said.

'They maybe is looking a bit propsposterous to you,' the BFG said, 'but you 
must believe me when I say
they is very extra-usual ears indeed. They is not to be coughed at.'

'I'm quite sure they're not,' Sophie said.

'They is allowing me to hear absolutely every single twiddly little thing.'
'You mean you can hear things I can't hear?' Sophie said.

'You is deaf as a dumpling compared with me!' cried the BFG. 'You is hearing 
only thumping loud noises
with those little earwigs of yours. But I am hearing all the secret whisperings 
of the world!'


'Such as what?' Sophie asked.

'In your country,' he said, 'I is hearing the footsteps of a ladybird as she 
goes walking across a leaf.'

'Honestly?' Sophie said, beginning to be impressed.

'What's more, I is hearing those footsteps very loud,' the BFG said. 'When a 
ladybird is walking across a
leaf, I is hearing her feet going clumpety-clumpety-clump like giants' 
footsteps.'

'Good gracious me!' Sophie said. 'What else can you hear?'

'I is hearing the little ants chittering to each other as they scuddle around 
in the soil.'
'You mean you can hear ants talking?'

'Every single word,' the BFG said. 'Although I is not exactly understanding 
their langwitch.'
'Go on,' Sophie said.

'Sometimes, on a very clear night,' the BFG said, 'and if I is swiggling my 
ears in the right direction,' —
and here he swivelled his great ears upwards so they were facing the ceiling — 
'if I is swiggling them like
this and the night is very clear, I is sometimes hearing faraway music coming 
from the stars in the sky.'

A queer little shiver passed through Sophie's body. She sat very quiet, waiting 
for more.
'My ears is what told me you was watching me out of your window last night,' 
the BFG said.
'But I didn't make a sound,' Sophie said.

'I was hearing your heart beating across the road,' the BFG said. 'Loud as a 
drum.'
'Go on,' Sophie said. 'Please.'

'I can hear plants and trees.'
'Do they talk?' Sophie asked.

'They is not exactly talking,' the BFG said. 'But they is making noises. For 
instance, if I come along and I is
picking a lovely flower, if I is twisting the stem of the flower till it 
breaks, then the plant is screaming. I
can hear it screaming and screaming very clear.'

'You don't mean it!' Sophie cried. 'How awful!'

'It is screaming just like you would be screaming if someone was twisting your 
arm right off.'
'Is that really true?' Sophie asked.

'You think I is swizzfiggling you?'


'It is rather hard to believe.'

'Then I is stopping right here,' said the BFG sharply. 'I is not wishing to be 
called a fibster.'
'Oh no! I'm not calling you anything!' Sophie cried. 'I believe you! I do 
really! Please go on!'

The BFG gave her a long hard stare. Sophie looked right back at him, her face 
open to his. 'I believe you,'
she said softly.

She had offended him, she could see that.
'I wouldn't ever be fibbling to you,' he said.

'I know you wouldn't,' Sophie said. 'But you must understand that it isn't easy 
to believe such amazing
things straightaway.'

'I understand that,' the BFG said.

'So do please forgive me and go on,' she said.

He waited a while longer, and then he said, 'It is the same with trees as it is 
with flowers. If I is chopping
an axe into the trunk of a big tree, I is hearing a terrible sound coming from 
inside the heart of the tree.'

'What sort of sound?' Sophie asked.

'A soft moaning sound,' the BFG said. 'It is like the sound an old man is 
making when he is dying slowly.'
He paused. The cave was very silent.

'Trees is living and growing just like you and me,' he said. 'They is alive. So 
is plants.'

He was sitting very straight in his chair now, his hands clasped tightly 
together in front of him. His face
was bright, his eyes round and bright as two stars.

'Such wonderful and terrible sounds I is hearing!' he said. 'Some of them you 
would never wish to be
hearing yourself! But some is like glorious music!'

He seemed almost to be transfigured by the excitement of his thoughts. His face 
was beautiful in its
blaze of emotions.

'Tell me some more about them,' Sophie said quietly.

'You just ought to be hearing the little micies talking!' he said. 'Little 
micies is always talking to each
other and I is hearing them as loud as my own voice.'

'What do they say?' Sophie asked.


'Only the micies know that,' he said. 'Spiders is also talking a great deal. 
You might not be thinking it but
spiders is the most tremendous natterboxes. And when they is spinning their 
webs, they is singing all the
time. They is singing sweeter than a nightingull.'

'Who else do you hear?' Sophie asked.

'One of the biggest chatbags is the cattlepiddlers,' the BFG said.
'What do they say?'

'They is argying all the time about who is going to be the prettiest 
butteryfly. That is all they is ever
talking about.'

'Is there a dream floating around in here now?' Sophie asked.

The BFG moved his great ears this way and that, listening intently. He shook 
his head. 'There is no dream
in here,' he said, 'except in the bottles. I has a special place to go for 
catching dreams. They is not often
coming to Giant Country.'

'How do you catch them?'

'The same way you is catching butteryflies,' the BFG answered. 'With a net.' He 
stood up and crossed
over to a corner of the cave where a pole was leaning against the wall. The 
pole was about thirty feet
long and there was a net on the end of it. 'Here is the dream-catcher,' he 
said, grasping the pole in one
hand. 'Every morning I is going out and snitching new dreams to put in my 
bottles.'

Suddenly, he seemed to lose interest in the conversation. 'I is getting 
hungry,' he said. 'It is time for
eats.'


Snozzcumbers

'But if you don't eat people like all the others,' Sophie said, 'then what do 
you live on?'

'That is a squelching tricky problem around here,' the BFG answered. 'In this 
sloshflunking Giant
Country, happy eats like pineapples and pigwinkles is simply not growing. 
Nothing is growing except for
one extremely icky-poo vegetable. It is called the snozzcumber.'

'The snozzcumber!' cried Sophie. 'There's no such thing.'

The BFG looked at Sophie and smiled, showing about twenty of his square white 
teeth. 'Yesterday,' he
said, 'we was not believing in giants, was we? Today we is not believing in 
snozzcumbers. Just because
we happen not to have actually seen something with our own two little winkles, 
we think it is not
existing. What about for instance the great squizzly scotch-hopper?'

'I beg your pardon?' Sophie said.
'And the humplecrimp?'

'What's that?' Sophie said.
'And the wraprascal?'

'The what?' Sophie said.
'And the crumpscoddle?'

'Are they animals?' Sophie asked.

'They is common animals,' said the BFG contemptuously. 'I is not a very 
know-all giant myself, but it
seems to me that you is an absolutely know-nothing human bean. Your brain is 
full of rotten-wool.'

'You mean cotton-wool,' Sophie said.

'What I mean and what I say is two different things,' the BFG announced rather 
grandly. 'I will now show
you a snozzcumber.'

The BFG flung open a massive cupboard and took out the weirdest-looking thing 
Sophie had ever seen.
It was about half as long again as an ordinary man but was much thicker. It was 
as thick around its girth
as a perambulator. It was black with white stripes along its length. And it was 
covered all over with
coarse knobbles.

'Here is the repulsant snozzcumber!' cried the BFG, waving it about. 'I 
squoggle it! I mispise it! I dispunge
it! But because I is refusing to gobble up human beans like the other giants, I 
must spend my life guzzling
up icky-poo snozzcumbers instead. If l don't, I will be nothing but skin and 
groans.'

'You mean skin and bones,' Sophie said.


'I know it is bones,' the BFG said. 'But please understand that I cannot be 
helping it if I sometimes is
saying things a little squiggly. I is trying my very best all the time.' The 
Big Friendly Giant looked suddenly
so forlorn that Sophie got quite upset.

'I'm sorry,' she said. 'I didn't mean to be rude.'

'There never was any schools to teach me talking in Giant Country,' the BFG 
said sadly.
'But couldn't your mother have taught you?' Sophie asked.

'My mother!' cried the BFG. 'Giants don't have mothers! Surely you is knowing 
that.'
'I did not know that,' Sophie said.

'Whoever heard of a woman giant!' shouted the BFG, waving the snozzcumber 
around his head like a
lasso. 'There never was a woman giant! And there never will be one. Giants is 
always men!'

Sophie felt herself getting a little muddled. 'In that case,' she said, 'how 
were you born?'

'Giants isn't born,' the BFG answered. 'Giants appears and that's all there is 
to it. They simply appears,
the same way as the sun and the stars.'

'And when did you appear?' Sophie asked.

'Now how on earth could I be knowing a thing like that?' said the BFG. 'It was 
so long ago I couldn't
count.'


'You mean you don't even know how old you are?'

'No giant is knowing that,' the BFG said. 'All I is knowing about myself is 
that I is very old, very very old
and crumply. Perhaps as old as the earth.'

'What happens when a giant dies?' Sophie asked.

'Giants is never dying,' the BFG answered. 'Sometimes and quite suddenly, a 
giant is disappearing and
nobody is ever knowing where he goes to. But mostly us giants is simply going 
on and on like whiffsy
time-twiddlers.'

The BFG was still holding the awesome snozzcumber in his right hand, and now he 
put one end into his
mouth and bit off a huge hunk of it. He started crunching it up and the noise 
he made was like the
crunching of lumps of ice.

'It's filthing!' he spluttered, speaking with his mouth full and spraying large 
pieces of snozzcumber like
bullets in Sophie's direction. Sophie hopped around on the table-top, ducking 
out of the way.

'It's disgusterous!' the BFG gurgled. 'It's sickable! It's rotsome! It's 
maggotwise! Try it yourself, this
foulsome snozzcumber!'


'No, thank you,' Sophie said, backing away.

'It's all you're going to be guzzling around here from now on so you might as 
well get used to it,' said the
BFG. 'Go on, you snipsy little winkle, have a go!'

Sophie took a small nibble. 'Uggggggggh!' she spluttered. 'Oh no! Oh gosh! Oh 
help!' She spat it out
quickly. 'It tastes of frogskins!' she gasped. 'And rotten fish!'

'Worse than that!' cried the BFG, roaring with laughter. 'To me it is tasting 
of clockcoaches and
slimewanglers!'

'Do we really have to eat it?' Sophie said.

'You do unless you is wanting to become so thin you will be disappearing into a 
thick ear.'
'Into thin air,' Sophie said. 'A thick ear is something quite different.'

Once again that sad winsome look came into the BFG's eyes. 'Words,' he said, 
'is oh such a twitch-
tickling problem to me all my life. So you must simply try to be patient and 
stop squibbling. As I am
telling  you before, I know exactly what words I am wanting to say, but somehow 
or other they is always
getting squiff-squiddled around.'

'That happens to everyone,' Sophie said.

'Not like it happens to me,' the BFG said. 'I is speaking the most terrible 
wigglish.'
'I think you speak beautifully,' Sophie said.

'You do?' cried the BFG, suddenly brightening. 'You really do?'
'Simply beautifully,' Sophie repeated.


'Well, that is the nicest present anybody is ever giving me in my whole life!' 
cried the BFG. 'Are you sure
you is not twiddling my leg?'

'Of course not,' Sophie said. 'I just love the way you talk.'

'How wondercrump!' cried the BFG, still beaming. 'How whoopsey-splunkers! How 
absolutely squiffling!
I is all of a stutter.'

'Listen,' Sophie said. 'We don't have to eat snozzcumbers. In the fields around 
our village there are all
sorts of lovely vegetables like cauliflowers and carrots. Why don't you get 
some of those next time you
go visiting?'

The BFG raised his great head proudly in the air. 'I is a very honourable 
giant,' he said. 'I would rather be
chewing up rotsome snozzcumbers than snitching things from other people.'

'You stole me,' Sophie said.

'I did not steal you very much,' said the BFG, smiling gently. 'After all, you 
is only a tiny little girl.'


The Bloodbottler

Suddenly, a tremendous thumping noise came from outside the cave entrance and a 
voice like thunder
shouted, 'Runt! Is you there, Runt? I is hearing you jabbeling! Who is you 
jabbeling to, Runt?'

'Look out!' cried the BFG. 'It's the Bloodbottler!' But before he had finished 
speaking, the stone was
rolled aside and a fifty-foot giant, more than twice as tall and wide as the 
BFG, came striding into the
cave. He was naked except for a dirty little piece of cloth around his bottom.

Sophie was on the table-top. The enormous partly eaten snozzcumber was lying 
near her. She ducked
behind it.

The creature came clumping into the cave and stood towering over the BFG. 'Who 
was you jabbeling to
in here just now?' he boomed.

'I is jabbeling to myself,' the BFG answered.

'Pilfflefizz!' shouted the Bloodbottler. 'Bugswallop!' he boomed. 'You is 
talking to a human bean, that's
what I is thinking!'

'No no!' cried the BFG.

'Yus yus!' boomed the Bloodbottler. 'I is guessing you has snitched away a 
human bean and brought it
back to your bunghole as a pet! So now I is winkling it out and guzzling it as 
extra snacks before my
supper!'

The poor BFG was very nervous. 'There's n-no one in here,' he stammered. 'W-why 
don't you l-leave me
alone?'

The Bloodbottler pointed a finger as large as a tree-trunk at the BFG. 'Runty 
little scumscrewer!' he
shouted. 'Piffling little swishfiggler! Squimpy little bottlewart! Prunty 
little pogswizzler! I is now going to
search the primroses!' He grabbed the BFG by the arm. 'And you is going to help 
me do it. Us together is
going to winkle out this tasteful little human bean!' he shouted.

The BFG had intended to whisk Sophie off the table as soon as he got the chance 
and hide her behind his
back, but now there was no hope of doing this. Sophie peered around the 
chewed-off end of the
enormous snozzcumber, watching the two giants as they moved away down the cave. 
The Bloodbottler
was a gruesome sight. His skin was reddish-brown. There was black hair 
sprouting on his chest and arms
and on his stomach. The hair on his head was long and dark and tangled. His 
foul face was round and
squashy-looking. The eyes were tiny black holes. The nose was small and flat. 
But the mouth was huge.
It spread right across the face almost ear to ear, and it had lips that were 
like two gigantic purple
frankfurters lying one on top of the other. Craggy yellow teeth stuck out 
between the two purple
frankfurter lips, and rivers of spit ran down over the chin.


It was not in the least difficult to believe that this ghastly brute ate men, 
women and children every
night.

The Bloodbottler, still holding the BFG by the arm, was examining the rows and 
rows of bottles. 'You and
your pibbling bottles!' he shouted. 'What is you putting in them?'

'Nothing that would interest you,' the BFG answered. 'You is only interested in 
guzzling human beans.'
'And you is dotty as a dogswoggler!' cried the Bloodbottler.

Soon the Bloodbottler would be coming back, Sophie told herself, and he was 
bound to search the table-
top. But she couldn't possibly jump off the table. It was twelve feet high. 
She'd break a leg. The
snozzcumber, although it was as thick as a perambulator, was not going to hide 
her if the Bloodbottler


picked it up. She examined the chewed-off end. It had large seeds in the 
middle, each one as big as a
melon. They were embedded in soft slimy stuff. Taking care to stay out of 
sight, Sophie reached forward
and scooped away half a dozen of these seeds. This left a hole in the middle of 
the snozzcumber large
enough for her to crouch in so long as she rolled herself up into a ball. She 
crawled into it. It was a wet
and slimy hiding-place, but what did that matter if it was going to save her 
from being eaten.

The Bloodbottler and the BFG were coming back towards the table now. The BFG 
was nearly fainting
with fear. Any moment, he was telling himself, Sophie would be discovered and 
eaten.

Suddenly, the Bloodbottler grabbed the half-eaten snozzcumber. The BFG stared 
at the bare table.
Sophie, where is you? he thought desperately. You cannot possibly be jumpelling 
off that high table, so
where is you hiding, Sophie?

'So this is the filthing rotsome glubbage you is eating!' boomed the 
Bloodbottler, holding up the partly
eaten snozzcumber. 'You must be cockles to be guzzling such rubbsquash!'

For a moment, the Bloodbottler seemed to have forgotten about his search for 
Sophie. The BFG decided
to lead him further off the track. 'That is the scrumdiddlyumptious 
snozzcumber,' he said. 'I is guzzling it
gleefully every night and day. Is you never trying a snozzcumber, 
Bloodbottler?'

'Human beans is juicier,' the Bloodbottler said.

'You is talking rommytot,' the BFG said, growing braver by the second. He was 
thinking that if only he
could get the Bloodbottler to take one bite of the repulsive vegetable, the 
sheer foulness of its flavour
would send him bellowing out of the cave. 'I is happy to let you sample it,' 
the BFG went on. 'But please,
when you see how truly glumptious it is, do not be guzzling the whole thing. 
Leave me a little snitchet
for  my supper.'

The Bloodbottler stared suspiciously with small piggy eyes at the snozzcumber.
Sophie, crouching inside the chewed-off end, began to tremble all over.

'You is not switchfiddling me, is you?' said the Bloodbottler.

'Never!' cried the BFG passionately. 'Take a bite and I am positive you will be 
shouting out oh how
scrumdiddlyumptious this wonderveg is!'

The BFG could see the greedy Bloodbottler's mouth beginning to water more than 
ever at the prospect
of extra food. 'Vegitibbles is very good for you,' he went on. 'It is not 
healthsome always to be eating
meaty things.'

'Just this once,' the Bloodbottler said, 'I is going to taste these rotsome 
eats of yours. But I is warning
you that if it is filthsome, I is smashing it over your sludgy little head!'

He picked up the snozzcumber.

He began raising it on its long journey to his mouth, some fifty feet up in the 
air.


Sophie wanted to scream Don't! But that would have been an even more certain 
death. Crouching
among the slimy seeds, she felt herself being lifted up and up and up.

Suddenly, there was a crunch as the Bloodbottler bit a huge hunk off the end. 
Sophie saw his yellow
teeth clamping together, a few inches from her head. Then there was utter 
darkness. She was in his
mouth. She caught a whiff of his evil-smelling breath. It stank of bad meat. 
She waited for the teeth to
go crunch once more. She prayed that she would be killed quickly.

'Eeeeeowtch!' roared the Bloodbottler. 'Ughbwelch! Ieeeech!' And then he spat.

All of the great lumps of snozzcumber that were in his mouth, as well as Sophie 
herself, went shooting
out across the cave.

If Sophie had struck the stony wall of the cave, she would most certainly have 
been killed. Instead, she
hit the soft folds of the BFG's black cloak hanging against the wall. She 
dropped to the ground, half-
stunned. She crawled under the hem of the cloak and there she crouched.

'You little swinebuggler!' roared the Bloodbottler. 'You little pigswiller!' He 
rushed at the BFG and
smashed what was left of the snozzcumber over his head. Fragments of the filthy 
vegetable splashed all
over the cave.

'You is not loving it?' the BFG asked innocently, rubbing his head.

'Loving it!' yelled the Bloodbottler. 'That is the most disgusterous taste that 
is ever touching my teeth!
You must be buggies to be swalloping slutch like that! Every night you could be 
galloping off happy as a
hamburger and gobbling juicy human beans!'

'Eating human beans is wrong and evil,' the BFG said.

'It is guzzly and glumptious!' shouted the Bloodbottler. 'And tonight I is 
galloping off to Chile to swobble
a few human Chile beans. Is you wishing to know why I is choosing Chile?'

'I is not wishing to know anything,' the BFG said, very dignified.


'I is choosing Chile,' the Bloodbottler said, 'because I is fed up with the 
taste of Esquimos. It is important
I has plenty of cold eats in this scuddling hot weather, and the next coldest 
thing to an Esquimo is a Chile
bean. Human beans from Chile is very chilly.'

'Horrible,' the BFG said. 'You ought to be ashamed.'

'Other giants is all saying they is wanting to gallop off to England tonight to 
guzzle school-chiddlers,' the
Bloodbottler said. 'I is very fond indeed of English school-chiddlers. They has 
a nice inky-booky flavour.
Perhaps I will change my mind and go to England with them.'

'You is disgusting,' the BFG said.

'And you is an insult to the giant peoples!' shouted the Bloodbottler. 'You is 
not fit to be a giant! You is a
squinky little squiddler! You is a pibbling little pitsqueak! You is a ... 
cream puffnut!'

With that, the horrible Bloodbottling Giant strode out of the cave. The BFG ran 
to the cave entrance and
quickly rolled the stone back into place.

'Sophie,' he whispered. 'Sophie, where is you, Sophie?'

Sophie emerged from under the hem of the black cloak. 'I'm here,' she said.

The BFG picked her up and held her tenderly in the palm of his hand. 'Oh, I is 
so happy to be finding you
all in one lump!' he said.

'I was in his mouth,' Sophie said.
'You was what!' cried the BFG.
Sophie told him what had happened.

'And there I was telling him to eat the filthsome snozzcumber and you was all 
the time inside it!' the BFG
cried.

'Not much fun,' Sophie said.

'Just look at you, you poor little chiddler!' cried the BFG. 'You is all 
covered in snozzcumber and giant
spit.' He set about cleaning her up as best he could. 'I is hating those other 
giants more than ever now,'
he said. 'You know what I should like?'

'What?' Sophie said.

'I should like to find a way of disappearing them, every single one.'

'I'd be glad to help you,' Sophie said. 'Let me see if I can't think up a way 
of doing it.'



Frobscottle and Whizzpoppers

By now Sophie was beginning to feel not only extremely hungry, but very thirsty 
as well. Had she been
at home she would have finished her breakfast long ago.

'Are you sure there's nothing else to eat around here except those disgusting 
smelly snozzcumbers?' she
asked.

'Not even a fizzwinkel,' answered the Big Friendly Giant.
'In that case, may I please have a little water?' she said.
'Water?' said the BFG, frowning mightily. 'What is water?'
'We drink it,' Sophie said. 'What do you drink?'

'Frobscottle,' announced the BFG. 'All giants is drinking frobscottle.'
'Is it as nasty as your snozzcumbers?' Sophie asked.

'Nasty!' cried the BFG. 'Never is it nasty! Frobscottle is sweet and jumbly!' 
He got up from his chair and
went to a second huge cupboard. He opened it and took out a glass bottle that 
must have been six feet
tall. The liquid inside it was pale green, and the bottle was half full.

'Here is frobscottle!' he cried, holding the bottle up proud and high, as 
though it contained some rare
wine. 'Delumptious fizzy frobscottle!' he shouted. He gave it a shake and the 
green stuff began to fizz
like mad.

'But look! It's fizzing the wrong way!' Sophie cried. And indeed it was. The 
bubbles, instead of travelling
upwards and bursting on the surface, were shooting downwards and bursting at 
the bottom. A pale
green frothy fizz was forming at the bottom of the bottle.


'What on earth is you meaning the wrong way?' asked the BFG.

'In our fizzy drinks,' Sophie said, 'the bubbles always go up and burst at the 
top.'

'Upwards is the wrong way!' cried the BFG. 'You mustn't ever be having the 
bubbles going upwards!
That the most flushbunking rubbish I ever is hearing!'

'Why do you say that?' Sophie asked.

'You is asking me why?' cried the BFG, waving the enormous bottle around as 
though he were
conducting an orchestra. 'You is actually meaning to tell me you cannot see why 
it is a scrotty mistake to
have   the bubbles flying up instead of down?'

'You said it was flushbunking. Now you say it's scrotty. Which is it?' Sophie 
asked politely.

'Both!' cried the BFG. 'It is a flushbunking and a scrotty mistake to let the 
bubbles go upwards! If you
can't see why, you must be as quacky as a duckhound! By ringo, your head must 
be so full of
frogsquinkers and buzzwangles, I is frittered if I know how you can think at 
all!'

'Why shouldn't the bubbles go upward?' Sophie asked.

'I will explain,' said the BFG. 'But tell me first what name is you calling 
your frobscottle by?'
'One is Coke,' Sophie said. 'Another is Pepsi. There are lots of them.'

'And the bubbles is all going up?'
'They all go up,' Sophie said.

'Catasterous!' cried the BFG. 'Upgoing bubbles is a catasterous disastrophe!'
'Will you please tell me why?' Sophie said.

'If you will listen carefully I will try to explain,' said the BFG. 'But your 
brain is so full of bugwhiffles, I
doubt you will ever understand.'

'I'll do my best,' Sophie said patiently.

'Very well, then. When you is drinking this cokey drink of yours,' said the 
BFG, 'it is going straight down
into your tummy. Is that right? Or is it left?'

'It's right,' Sophie said.

'And the bubbles is going also into your tummy. Right or left?'
'Right again,' Sophie said.

'And the bubbles is fizzing upwards?'


'Of course,' Sophie said.

'Which means,' said the BFG, 'that they will all come swishwiffling up your 
throat and out of your mouth
and make a foulsome belchy burp!'

'That is often true,' Sophie said. 'But what's wrong with a little burp now and 
again? It's sort of fun.'
'Burping is filthsome,' the BFG said. 'Us giants is never doing it.'

'But with your drink,' Sophie said, 'what was it you called it?'
'Frobscottle,' said the BFG.

'With frobscottle,' Sophie said, 'the bubbles in your tummy will be going 
downwards and that could have
a far nastier result.'

'Why nasty?' asked the BFG, frowning.

'Because,' Sophie said, blushing a little, 'if they go down instead of up, 
they'll be coming out somewhere
else with an even louder and ruder noise.'

'A whizzpopper!' cried the BFG, beaming at her. 'Us giants is making 
whizzpoppers all the time!
Whizzpopping is a sign of happiness. It is music in our ears! You surely is not 
telling me that a little
whizzpopping is forbidden among human beans?'

'It is considered extremely rude,' Sophie said.

'But you is whizzpopping, is you not, now and again?' asked the BFG.

'Everyone is whizzpopping, if that's what you call it,' Sophie said. 'Kings and 
Queens are whizzpopping.
Presidents are whizzpopping. Glamorous film stars are whizzpopping. Little 
babies are whizzpopping. But
where    I come from, it is not polite to talk about it.'

'Redunculous!' said the BFG. 'If everyone is making whizzpoppers, then why not 
talk about it? We is now
having a swiggle of this delicious frobscottle and you will see the happy 
result.' The BFG shook the bottle
vigorously. The pale green stuff fizzed and bubbled. He removed the cork and 
took a tremendous
gurgling swig.

'It's glummy!' he cried. 'I love it!'

For a few moments, the Big Friendly Giant stood quite still, and a look of 
absolute ecstasy began to
spread over his long wrinkly face. Then suddenly the heavens opened and he let 
fly with a series of the
loudest and rudest noises Sophie had ever heard in her life. They reverberated 
around the walls of the
cave like thunder and the glass jars rattled on their shelves. But most 
astonishing of all, the force of the
explosions actually lifted the enormous giant clear off his feet, like a 
rocket.

'Whoopee!' he cried, when he came down to earth again. 'Now that is 
whizzpopping for you!'


Sophie burst out laughing. She couldn't help it.

'Have some yourself!' cried the BFG, tipping the neck of the enormous bottle 
towards her.
'Don't you have a cup?' Sophie said.

'No cups. Only bottle.'

Sophie opened her mouth, and very gently the BFG tipped the bottle forward and 
poured some of the
fabulous frobscottle down her throat.

And oh gosh, how delicious it was! It was sweet and refreshing. It tasted of 
vanilla and cream, with just
the faintest trace of raspberries on the edge of the flavour. And the bubbles 
were wonderful. Sophie
could actually feel them bouncing and bursting all around her tummy. It was an 
amazing sensation. It
felt as though hundreds of tiny people were dancing a jig inside her and 
tickling her with their toes. It
was lovely.

'It's lovely!' she cried.

'Just wait,' said the BFG, flapping his ears.


Sophie could feel the bubbles travelling lower and lower down her tummy, and 
then suddenly,
inevitably … the explosion came. The trumpets sounded and she too made the 
walls of the cavern ring
with  the sound of music and thunder.

'Bravo!' shouted the BFG, waving the bottle. 'You is very good for a beginner! 
Let's have some more!'


Journey to Dream Country

After the mad frobscottle party was over, Sophie settled herself again on top 
of the enormous table.
'You is feeling better now?' asked the Big Friendly Giant.

'Much better, thank you,' Sophie said.

'Whenever I is feeling a bit scrotty,' the BFG said, 'a few gollops of 
frobscottle is always making me
hopscotchy again.'

'I must say it's quite an experience,' Sophie said.

'It's a razztwizzler,' the BFG said. 'It's gloriumptious.' He turned away and 
strode across the cave and
picked up his dream-catching net. 'I is galloping off now,' he said, 'to catch 
some more whoppsy-
whiffling dreams for my collection. I is doing this every day without missing. 
Is you wishing to come with
me?'

'Not me, thank you very much!' Sophie said. 'Not with those other giants 
lurking outside!'

'I is snuggling you very cosy into the pocket of my waistcoat,' the BFG said. 
'Then no one is seeing you.'

Before Sophie could protest, he had picked her up off the table and popped her 
into the waistcoat
pocket. There was plenty of room in there. 'Is you wishing for a little hole to 
peep out from?' he asked
her.

'There's one here already,' she said. She had found a small hole in the pocket, 
and when she put one eye
close to it, she could see out very well indeed. She watched the BFG as he bent 
down and filled his
suitcase with empty glass jars. He closed the lid, picked up the suitcase in 
one hand, took the pole with
the net on the end in the other hand, and marched towards the entrance of the 
cave.

As soon as he was outside, the BFG set off across the great hot yellow 
wasteland where the blue rocks
lay and the dead trees stood and where all the other giants were skulking 
about.

Sophie, squatting low on her heels in the pocket of the leather waistcoat, had 
one eye glued to the little
hole. She saw the group of enormous giants about three hundred yards ahead.

'Hold your breaths!' the BFG whispered down to her. 'Cross your figglers! Here 
we go! We is going right
past all these other giants! Is you seeing that whopping great one, the one 
nearest to us?'

'I see him,' Sophie whispered back, quivering.

'That is the horriblest of them all. And the biggest of them all. He is called 
the Fleshlumpeating Giant.'
'I don't want to hear about him,' Sophie said.


'He is fifty-four feet high,' the BFG said softly as he jogged along. 'And he 
is swolloping human beans like
they is sugar-lumps, two or three at a time.'

'You're making me nervous,' Sophie said.

'I is nervous myself,' the BFG whispered. 'I always gets as jumpsy as a 
joghopper when the
Fleshlumpeating Giant is around.'

'Keep away from him,' Sophie pleaded.

'Not possible,' the BFG answered. 'He is galloping easily two times as quicksy 
as me.'
'Shall we turn back?' Sophie said.

'Turning back is worse,' the BFG said. 'If they is seeing me running away, they 
is all giving chase and
throwing rocks.'

'They would never eat you though would they?' Sophie asked.

'Giants is never guzzling other giants,' the BFG said. 'They is fighting and 
squarreling a lot with each
other, but never guzzling. Human beans is more tasty to them.'

The giants had already spotted the BFG and all heads were turned, watching him 
as he jogged forward.
He was aiming to pass well to the right of the group.

Through her little peep-hole, Sophie saw the Fleshlumpeating Giant moving over 
to intercept them. He
didn't hurry. He just loped over casually to a point where the BFG would have 
to pass. The others loped
after him. Sophie counted nine of them altogether and she recognized the 
Bloodbottler in the middle of
them. They were bored. They had nothing to do until nightfall. There was an air 
of menace about them
as they loped slowly across the plain with long lolloping strides, heading for 
the BFG.

'Here comes the runty one!' boomed the Fleshlumpeater. 'Ho-ho there, runty one! 
Where is you
splatchwinkling away to in such a hefty hurry?' He shot out an enormous arm and 
grabbed the BFG by
the hair. The BFG didn't struggle. He simply stopped and stood quite still and 
said, 'Be so kind as to be
letting go of my hair, Fleshlumpeater.'

The Fleshlumpeater released him and stepped back a pace. The other giants stood 
around, waiting for
the fun to start.

'Now then, you little grobsquiffler!' boomed the Fleshlumpeater. 'We is all of 
us wanting to know where
you is galloping off to every day in the daytime. Nobody ought to be galloping 
off to anywhere until it is
getting dark. The human beans could easily be spotting you and starting a giant 
hunt and we is not
wanting that to happen, is we not?'

'We is not!' shouted the other giants. 'Go back to your cave, runty one!'

'I is not galloping to any human bean country,' the BFG said. 'I is going to 
other places.'


'I is thinking,' said the Fleshlumpeater, 'that you is catching human beans and 
keeping them as pets!'

'Right you is!' cried the Bioodbottler. 'Just now I is hearing him chittering 
away to one of them in his
cave!'

'You is welcome to go and search my cave from frack to bunt,' the BFG answered. 
'You can go looking
into every crook and nanny. There is no human beans or stringy beans or runner 
beans or jelly beans or
any other beans in there.'

Sophie crouched still as a mouse inside the BFG's pocket. She hardly dared 
breathe. She was terrified
she might sneeze. The slightest sound or movement would give her away. Through 
the tiny peep-hole
she watched the giants clustering around the poor BFG. How revolting they were! 
All of them had piggy
little eyes and enormous mouths with thick sausage lips. When the 
Fleshlumpeater was speaking, she
got  a glimpse of his tongue. It was jet black, like a slab of black steak. 
Every one of them was more than
twice as tall as the BFG.

Suddenly, the Fleshlumpeater shot out two enormous hands and grabbled the BFG 
around the waist. He
tossed him high in the air and shouted, 'Catch him, Manhugger!'

The Manhugger caught him. The other giants spread out quickly in a large 
circle, each giant about
twenty yards from his neighbour, preparing for the game they were going to 
play. Now the Manhugger
threw the BFG high and far, shouting 'Catch him, Bonecruncher!'

The Bonecruncher ran forward and caught the tumbling BFG and immediately swung 
him up again.
'Catch him, Childchewer!' he shouted.

And so it went on. The giants were playing ball with the BFG, vying with each 
other to see who could
throw him the highest. Sophie dug her nails into the sides of the pocket, 
trying to prevent herself from
tumbling out when she was upside down. She felt as though she were in a barrel 
going over the Niagara
Falls. And all the time there was the fearful danger that one of the giants 
would fail to catch the BFG and
he would go crashing to the ground.


'Catch him, Meatdripper!' ...
'Catch him, Gizzardgulper!' …
'Catch him, Maidmasher!' ...
'Catch him, Bioodbottler!' ...

'Catch him! ... Catch him! ... Catch him! ...'

In the end, they got bored with this game. They dumped the poor BFG on the 
ground. He was dazed and
shattered. They gave him a few kicks and shouted, 'Run, you little runt! Let us 
be seeing how fast you is
galloping!' The BFG ran. What else could he do? The giants picked up rocks and 
hurled them after him.
He managed to dodge them. 'Ruddy little runt!' they shouted. 'Troggy little 
twit! Shrivelly little shrimp!
Mucky little midget! Squaggy little squib! Grobby little grub!'

At last the BFG got clear of them all and in another couple of minutes the pack 
of giants was out of sight
over the horizon. Sophie popped her head up from the pocket. 'I didn't like 
that,' she said.

'Phew!' said the BFG. 'Phew and far between! They was in a nasty crotching mood 
today, was they not! I
is sorry you was having such a whirlgig time.'

'No worse than you,' Sophie said. 'Would they ever really hurt you?'
'I isn't ever trusting them,' the BFG said.


'How do they actually catch the humans they eat?' Sophie asked.

'They is usually just sticking an arm in through the bedroom window and 
snitching them from their
beds,' the BFG said.

'Like you did to me.'

'Ah, but I isn't eating you,' the BFG said.

'How else do they catch them?' Sophie asked.

'Sometimes,' the BFG said, 'they is swimmeling in from the sea like fishies 
with only their heads showing
above the water, and then out comes a big hairy hand and grabbles someone off 
the beach.'

'Children as well?'

'Often chiddlers,' the BFG said. 'Little chiddlers who is building sandcastles 
on the beach. That is who the
swimmeling ones are after. Little chiddlers is not so tough to eat as old 
grandmamma, so says the
Childchewing Giant.'

As they talked, the BFG was galloping fast over the land. Sophie was standing 
right up in his waistcoat
pocket now and holding on to the edge with both hands. Her head and shoulders 
were in the open and
the wind was blowing in her hair.

'How else do they catch people?' she asked.

'All of them is having their own special ways of catching the human bean,' the 
BFG said. 'The
Meatdripping Giant is preferring to pretend he is a big tree growing in the 
park. He is standing in the
park                    in the dusky evening and he is holding great big 
branches over his head, and there he is waiting
until some happy families is coming to have a picnic under the spreading tree. 
The Meatdripping Giant is
watching them as they lay out their little picnic. But in the end it is the 
Meatdripper who is having the
picnic.'

'It's too awful!' Sophie cried.

'The Gizzardgulping Giant is a city lover,' the BFG went on. 'The Gizzardgulper 
is lying high up between
the roofs of houses in the big cities. He is lying there snuggy as a sniggler 
and watching the human beans
walking on the street below, and when he sees one that looks like it has a 
whoppsy-good flavour, he
grabs       it. He is simply reaching down and snitching it off the street like 
a monkey taking a nut. He says it
is nice to be able to pick and choose what you is having for your supper. He 
says it is like choosing from a
menu.'

'Don't people see him doing it?' Sophie asked.

'Never is they seeing him. Do not forget it is dusky-dark at this time. Also, 
the Gizzardgulper has a very
fast arm. His arm is going up and down quicker than squinkers.'


'But if all these people are disappearing every night, surely there's some sort 
of an outcry?' Sophie said.

'The world is a whopping big place,' the BFG said. 'It has a hundred different 
countries. The giants is
clever. They is careful not to be skididdling off to the same country too 
often. They is always
switchfiddling around.'

'Even so ...' Sophie said.

'Do not forget,' the BFG said, 'that human beans is disappearing everywhere all 
the time even without
the giants is guzzling them up. Human beans is killing each other much quicker 
than the giants is doing
it.'

'But they don't eat each other,' Sophie said.

'Giants isn't eating each other either,' the BFG said. 'Nor is giants killing 
each other. Giants is not very
lovely, but they is not killing each other. Nor is crockadowndillies killing 
other crockadowndillies. Nor is
pussy-cats killing pussy-cats.'

'They kill mice,' Sophie said.

'Ah, but they is not killing their own kind,' the BFG said. 'Human beans is the 
only animals that is killing
their own kind.'

'Don't poisonous snakes kill each other?' Sophie asked. She was searching 
desperately for another
creature that behaved as badly as the human.

'Even poisnowse snakes is never killing each other,' the BFG said. 'Nor is the 
most fearsome creatures
like tigers and rhinostossterisses. None of them is ever killing their own 
kind. Has you ever thought
about that?'

Sophie kept silent.

'I is not understanding human beans at all,' the BFG said. 'You is a human bean 
and you is saying it is
grizzling and horrigust for giants to be eating human beans. Right or left?'

'Right,' Sophie said.

'But human beans is squishing each other all the time,' the BFG said. 'They is 
shootling guns and going up
in aerioplanes to drop their bombs on each other's heads every week. Human 
beans is always killing
other human beans.'

He was right. Of course he was right and Sophie knew it. She was beginning to 
wonder whether humans
were actually any better than giants. 'Even so,' she said, defending her own 
race, 'I think it's rotten that
those foul giants should go off every night to eat humans. Humans have never 
done themany harm.'

'That is what the little piggy-wig is saying every day,' the BFG answered. 'He 
is saying, "I has never done
any harm to the human bean so why should he be eating me?"'


'Oh dear,' Sophie said.

'The human beans is making rules to suit themselves,' the BFG went on. 'But the 
rules they is making do
not suit the little piggy-wiggies. Am I right or left?'

'Right,' Sophie said.

'Giants is also making rules. Their rules is not suiting the human beans. 
Everybody is making his own
rules to suit himself.'

'But you don't like it that those beastly giants are eating humans every night, 
do you?' Sophie asked.

'I do not,' the BFG answered firmly. 'One right is not making two lefts. Is you 
quite cosy down there in
my pocket?'

'I'm fine,' Sophie said.

Then suddenly, once again, the BFG went into that magical top gear of his. He 
began hurtling forward
with phenomenal leaps. His speed was unbelievable. The landscape became blurred 
and again Sophie
had to duck down out of the whistling gale to save her head from being blown 
off her shoulders. She
crouched in the pocket and listened to the wind screaming past. It came knifing 
in through the tiny
peep-hole in the pocket and whooshed around her like a hurricane.

But this time the BFG didn't stay in top gear long. It seemed as though he had 
had some barrier to cross,
a vast mountain perhaps or an ocean or a great desert, but having crossed it, 
he once again slowed
down to his normal gallop and Sophie was able to pop her head up and look out 
once more at the view.

She noticed immediately that they were now in an altogether paler country. The 
sun had disappeared
above a film of vapour. The air was becoming cooler every minute. The land was 
flat and treeless and
there seemed to be no colour in it at all.

Every minute, the mist became thicker. The air became colder still and 
everything became paler and
paler until soon there was nothing but grey and white all around them. They 
were in a country of
swirling mists and ghostly vapours. There was some sort of grass underfoot but 
it was not green. It was
ashy grey. There was no sign of a living creature and no sound at all except 
for the soft thud of the BFG's
footsteps as he hurtled on through the fog.

Suddenly he stopped. 'We is here at last!' he announced. He bent down and 
lifted Sophie from his
pocket and put her on the ground. She was still in her nightie and her feet 
were bare. She shivered and
stared around her at the swirling mists and ghostly vapours.

'Where are we?' she asked.

'We is in Dream Country,' the BFG said. 'This is where all dreams is 
beginning.'


Dream-Catching

The Big Friendly Giant put the suitcase on the ground. He bent down low so that 
his enormous face was
close to Sophie's. 'From now on, we is keeping as still as winky little 
micies,' he whispered.

Sophie nodded. The misty vapour swirled around her. It made her cheeks damp and 
left dewdrops in her
hair.

The BFG opened the suitcase and took out several empty glass jars. He set them 
ready on the ground,
with their screw tops removed. Then he stood up very straight. His head was now 
high up in the swirling
mist and it kept disappearing, then appearing again. He was holding the long 
net in his right hand.

Sophie, staring upwards, saw through the mist that his colossal ears were 
beginning to swivel out from
his head. They began waving gently to and fro.

Suddenly the BFG pounced. He leaped high in the air and swung the net through 
the mist with a great
swishing sweep of his arm. 'Got him!' he cried. 'A jar! A jar! Quick quick 
quick!' Sophie picked up a jar
and      held it up to him. He grabbed hold of it. He lowered the net. Very 
carefully he tipped something
absolutely invisible from the net into the jar. He dropped the net and swiftly 
clapped one hand over the
jar.     'The top!' he whispered. 'The jar top quick!' Sophie picked up the 
screw top and handed it to him. He
screwed it on tight and the jar was closed. The BFG was very excited. He held 
the jar close to one ear
and listened intently.

'It's a winksquiffler!' he whispered with a thrill in his voice. 'It's ... it's 
... it's ... it's even better. It's a
phizzwizard! It's a golden phizzwizard!'

Sophie stared at him.

'Oh my, oh my!' he said, holding the jar in front of him. 'This will be giving 
some little tottler a very
happy night when I is blowing it in!'

'Is it really a good one?' Sophie asked.

'A good one?' he cried. 'It's a golden phizzwizard! It is not often I is 
getting one of these!' He handed the
jar to Sophie and said, 'Please be still as a starfish now. I is thinking there 
may be a whole swarm of
phizzwizards up here today. And do kindly stop breathing. You is terribly noisy 
down there.'

'I haven't moved a muscle,' Sophie said.

'Then don't,' the BFG answered sharply. Once again he stood up tall in the 
mist, holding his net at the
ready. Then came the long silence, the waiting, the listening, and at last, 
with surprising suddenness
came the leap and the swish of the net.

'Another jar!' he cried. 'Quick quick quick!'

When the second dream was safely in the jar and the top was screwed down, the 
BFG held it to his ear.


'Oh no!' he cried. 'Oh mince my maggots! Oh swipe my swoggles!'
'What's the matter?' Sophie asked.

'It's a trogglehumper!' he shouted. His voice was filled with fury and anguish. 
'Oh, save our solos!' he
cried. 'Deliver us from weasels! The devil is dancing on my dibbler!'

'What are you talking about?' Sophie said. The BFG was getting more distressed 
every moment.


'Oh, bash my eyebones!' he cried, waving the jar in the air. 'I come all this 
way to get lovely golden
dreams and what is I catching?'

'What are you catching?' Sophie said.

'I is catching a frightsome trogglehumper!' he cried. 'This is a bad bad dream! 
It is worse than a bad
dream! It is a nightmare!'

'Oh dear,' Sophie said. 'What will you do with that?'

'I is never never letting it go!' the BFG cried. 'If I do, then some poor 
little tottler will be having the most
curdbloodling time! This one is a real kicksy bogthumper! I is exploding it as 
soon as I get home!'

'Nightmares are horrible,' Sophie said. 'I had one once and I woke up sweating 
all over.'

'With this one you would be waking up screaming all over!' the BFG said. 'This 
one would make your
teeth stand on end! If this one got into you, your blood would be freezing to 
icicles and your skin would
go creeping across the floor!'

'Is it as bad as that?'

'It's worse!' cried the BFG. 'This is a real whoppsy grobswitcher!'
'You said it was a trogglehumper,' Sophie told him.

'It is a trogglehumper!' cried the exasperated BFG. 'But it is also a 
bogthumper and a grobswitcher! It is
all three riddled into one! Oh, I is so glad I is clutching it tight. Ah, you 
wicked beastie, you!' he cried,
holding up the jar and staring into it. 'Never more is you going to be 
bunkdoodling the poor little human-
beaney tottlers!'

Sophie, who was also staring into the glass jar, cried out, 'I can see it! 
There's something in there!'
'Of course there is something in there,' the BFG said. 'You is looking at a 
frightsome trogglehumper.'
'But you told me dreams were invisible.'

'They is always invisible until they is captured,' the BFG told her. 'After 
that they is losing a little of their
invisibility. We is seeing this one very clearly.'

Inside the jar Sophie could see the faint scarlet outline of something that 
looked like a mixture between
a blob of gas and a bubble of jelly. It was moving violently, thrashing against 
the sides of the jar and
forever changing shape.


'It's wiggling all over the place!' Sophie cried. 'It's fighting to get out! 
It'll bash itself to bits!'

'The nastier the dream, the angrier it is getting when it is in prison,' the 
BFG said. 'It is the same as with
wild animals. If an animal is very fierce and you is putting it in a cage, it 
will make a tremendous
rumpledumpus. If it is a nice animal like a cockatootloo or a fogglefrump, it 
will sit quietly. Dreams is
exactly the same. This one is a nasty fierce bogrotting nightmare. Just look at 
him splashing himself
against the glass!'

'It's quite frightening!' Sophie cried.

'I would be hating to get this one inside me on a darksome night,' the BFG said.
'So would I!' Sophie said.

The BFG started putting the bottles back into the suitcase.
'Is that all?' Sophie asked. 'Are we going?'

'I is so upset by this trogglehumping bogthumping grobswitcher,' the BFG said, 
'that I is not wishing to go
on. Dream-catching is finished for today.'

Soon Sophie was back in the waistcoat pocket and the BFG was racing home as 
fast as he could go.
When, at last, they emerged out of the mist and came again on to the hot yellow 
wasteland, all the
other giants were sprawled out on the ground, fast asleep.


A Trogglehumper for the Fleshlumpeater

'They is always having fifty winks before they goes scumpering off to hunt 
human beans in the evening,'
the BFG said. He stopped for a few moments to let Sophie have a better look. 
'Giants is only sleeping
every then and now,' he said. 'Not nearly as much as human beans. Human beans 
is crazy for sleeping. Is
it ever occurring to you that a human bean who is fifty is spending about 
twenty years sleeping fast?'

'I must admit that never occurred to me,' Sophie said.

'You should allow it to occur to you,' the BFG said. 'Imagine it please. This 
human bean who says he is
fifty has been fast asleep for twenty years and is not even knowing where he 
is! Not even doing
anything! Not even thinking!'

'It's a funny thought,' Sophie said.

'Exunckly,' the BFG said. 'So what I is trying to explain to you is that a 
human bean who says he is fifty is
not fifty, he is only thirty.'

'What about me?' Sophie said. 'I am eight.'

'You is not eight at all,' the BFG said. 'Human bean babies and little 
chiddlers is spending half their time
sleeping, so you is only four.'

'I'm eight,' Sophie said.

'You may think you is eight,' the BFG said, 'but you has only spent four years 
of your life with your little
eyes open. You is only four and please stop higgling me. Titchy little 
snapperwhippers like you should
not be higgling around with an old sage and onions who is hundreds of years 
more than you.'

'How much do giants sleep?' Sophie asked.

'They is never wasting much time snozzling,' the BFG said. 'Two or three hours 
is enough.'
'When do you sleep?' Sophie asked.

'Even less,' the BFG answered. 'I is sleeping only once in a blue baboon.'

Sophie, peeping out from her pocket, examined the nine sleeping giants. They 
looked even more
grotesque now than when they were awake. Sprawled out across the yellow plain, 
they covered an area
about the size of a football field. Most of them were lying on their backs with 
their enormous mouths
wide open, and they were snoring like foghorns. The noise was awful.

Suddenly the BFG gave a jump in the air. 'By gumfrog!' he cried. 'I is just 
having the most whoppsy-
whiffling idea!'

'What?' Sophie said.


'Wait!' he cried. 'Hold your horsefeathers! Keep your skirt on! Just you wait 
to see what I is going to
bring about!' He galloped off fast to his cave with Sophie hanging on tight to 
the rim of the pocket. He
rolled back the stone. He entered the cave. He was very excited. He was moving 
quickly. 'You stay where
you is in my pocket, huggybee,' he said. 'We is doing this lovely bit of 
buckswashling both together.' He
laid aside the dream-catching net but hung on to the suitcase. He ran across to 
the other side of the
cave and grabbed the long trumpet thing, the one he had been carrying when 
Sophie had first seen him
in the village. With the suitcase in one hand and the trumpet in the other, he 
dashed out of the cave.

What is he up to now, Sophie wondered.

'Peep your head up good,' the BFG said, 'then you will get a fine winkle of 
what is going on.'

When the BFG came near to the sleeping giants, he slowed his pace. He began 
moving softly. He crept
on his toes towards the ugly brutes. They were still snoring loudly. They 
looked repulsive, filthy,
diabolical. The BFG tip-toed around them. He went past the Gizzardgulper, the 
Bloodbottler, the
Meatdripper, the Childchewer. Then he stopped. He had reached the 
Fleshlumpeater. He pointed at
him,          then he looked down at Sophie and gave her a big wink.

He knelt on the ground and very quietly he opened the suitcase. He took out of 
it the glass jar containing
the terrible nightmarish trogglehumper.

At that point, Sophie guessed what was going to happen next.

Owtch, she thought. This could be rather dangerous. She crouched lower in the 
pocket so that only the
top of her head and her eyes were showing. She wanted to be ready to duck out 
of sight very fast should
anything go wrong.

They were about ten feet away from the Fleshlumpeater's face. The 
snoring-snorting noise he was
making was disgusting. Every now and again a big bubble of spit formed between 
his two open lips and
then it would burst with a splash and cover his face with saliva.

Taking infinite care, the BFG unscrewed the top of the glass jar and tipped the 
squiggling squirming
faintly scarlet trogglehumper into the wide end of his long trumpet. He put the 
other end of the trumpet
to his lips. He aimed the instrument directly at the Fleshlumpeater's face. He 
took a deep breath, puffed
out his cheeks and then whoof! He blew!

Sophie saw a flash of pale red go darting towards the giant's face. For a split 
second it hovered above
the face. Then it was gone. It seemed to have been sucked up the giant's nose, 
but it had all happened
so quickly, Sophie couldn't be sure.

'We had better be skiddling away quick to where it is safe,' the BFG whispered. 
He trotted off for about
a hundred yards, then he stopped. He crouched low to the earth. 'Now,' he said, 
'we is waiting for the
gun and flames to begin.'

They didn't have long to wait.


The air was suddenly pierced by the most fearful roar Sophie had ever heard, 
and she saw the
Fleshlumpeater's body, all fifty-four feet of it, rise up off the ground and 
fall back again with a thump.
Then                        it began to wriggle and twist and bounce about in 
the most violent fashion. It was quite frightening
to watch.

'Eeeow!' roared the Fleshlumpeater. 'Ayeee! Oooow!'


'He's still asleep,' the BFG whispered. 'The terrible trogglehumping nightmare 
is beginning to hit him.'

'Serves him right,' Sophie said. She could feel no sympathy for this great 
brute who ate children as
though they were sugar-lumps.

'Save us!' screamed the Fleshlumpeater, thrashing about madly. 'He is after me! 
He is getting me!'

The thrashing of limbs and the waving of arms became more violent by the 
second. It was an awesome
thing to watch such a massive creature having such mighty convulsions.

'It's Jack!' bellowed the Fleshlumpeater. 'It's the grueful gruncious Jack! 
Jack is after me! Jack is
wackcrackling me! Jack is spikesticking me! Jack is splashplunking me! It is 
the terrible frightswiping
Jack!'           The Fleshlumpeater was writhing about over the ground like 
some colossal tortured snake. 'Oh,
spare me, Jack!' he yelled. 'Don't hurt me, Jack!'

'Who is this Jack he's on about?' Sophie whispered.

'Jack is the only human bean all giants is frightened of,' the BFG told her. 
'They is all absolutely terrified
of Jack. They is all hearing that Jack is a famous giant-killer.'

'Save me!' screamed the Fleshlumpeater. 'Have mercy on this poor little giant! 
The beanstalk! He is
coming at me with his terrible spikesticking beanstalk! Take it away! I is 
begging you, Jack, I is praying
you not to touch me with your terrible spikesticking beanstalk!'

'Us giants,' the BFG whispered, 'is not knowing very much about this dreaded 
human bean called Jack.
We is knowing only that he is a famous giant-killer and that he is owning 
something called a beanstalk.
We is knowing also that the beanstalk is a fearsome thing and Jack is using it 
to kill giants.'


Sophie couldn't stop smiling.

'What is you griggling at?' the BFG asked her, slightly nettled.
'I'll tell you later,' Sophie said.

The awful nightmare had now gripped the great brute to such an extent that he 
was tying his whole
body into knots. 'Do not do it, Jack!' he screeched. 'I was not eating you, 
Jack! I is never eating human
beans! I swear I has never gobbled a single human bean in all my wholesome 
life!'

'Liar,' said the BFG.

Just then, one of the Fleshlumpeater's flailing fists caught the 
still-fast-asleep Meatdripping Giant smack
in the mouth. At the same time, one of his furiously thrashing legs kicked the 
snoring Gizzardgulping
Giant right in the guts. Both the injured giants woke up and leaped to their 
feet.

'He is swiping me right in the mouth!' yelled the Meatdripper.

'He is bungswoggling me smack in the guts!' shouted the Gizzardgulper.

The two of them rushed at the Fleshlumpeater and began pounding him with their 
fists and feet. The
wretched Fleshlumpeater woke up with a bang. He awoke straight from one 
nightmare into another. He
roared into battle, and in the bellowing thumping rough and tumble that 
followed, one sleeping giant
after another either got stepped upon or kicked. Soon, all nine of them were on 
their feet having the
most almighty free-for-all. They punched and kicked and scratched and bit and 
butted each other as
hard  as they could. Blood flowed. Noses went crunch. Teeth fell out like 
hailstones. The giants roared
and screamed and cursed, and for many minutes the noise of battle rolled across 
the yellow plain.


The BFG smiled a big wide smile of absolute pleasure. 'I is loving it when they 
is all having a good tough
and rumble,' he said.

'They'll kill each other,' Sophie said.


'Never,' the BFG answered. 'Those beasts is always bishing and walloping at one 
another. Soon it will be
getting dusky and they will be galloping off to fill their tummies.'

'They're coarse and foul and filthy,' Sophie said. 'I hate them!'

As the BFG headed back to the cave, he said quietly, 'We certainly was putting 
that nightmare to good
use though, wasn't we?'

'Excellent use,' Sophie said. 'Well done you.'


Dreams

The Big Friendly Giant was seated at the great table in his cave and he was 
doing his homework.
Sophie sat cross-legged on the table-top near by, watching him at work.

The glass jar containing the one and only good dream they had caught that day 
stood between them.

The BFG, with great care and patience, was printing something on a piece of 
paper with an enormous
pencil.

'What are you writing?' Sophie asked him.

'Every dream is having its special label on the bottle,' the BFG said. 'How 
else could I be finding the one I
am wanting in a hurry?'

'But can you really and truly tell what sort of a dream it's going to be simply 
by listening to it?' Sophie
asked.

'I can,' the BFG said, not looking up.

'But how? Is it by the way it hums and buzzes?'

'You is less or more right,' the BFG said. 'Every dream in the world is making 
a different sort of buzzy-
hum music. And these grand swashboggling ears of mine is able to read that 
music.'

'By music, do you mean tunes?'


'I is not meaning tunes.'
'Then what do you mean?'

'Human beans is having their own music, right or left?'
'Right,' Sophie said. 'Lots of music.'

'And sometimes human beans is very overcome when they is hearing wonderous 
music. They is getting
shivers down their spindels. Right or left?'

'Right,' Sophie said.

'So the music is saying something to them. It is sending a message. I do not 
think the human beans is
knowing what that message is, but they is loving it just the same.'

'That's about right,' Sophie said.

'But because of these jumpsquiffling ears of mine,' the BFG said, 'I is not 
only able to hear the music that
dreams is making but I is understanding it also.'

'What do you mean understanding it?' Sophie said.

'I can read it,' the BFG said. 'It talks to me. It is like a langwitch.'
'I find that just a little hard to believe,' Sophie said.

'I'll bet you is also finding it hard to believe in quogwinkles,' the BFG said, 
'and how they is visiting us
from the stars.'

'Of course I don't believe that,' Sophie said.

The BFG regarded her gravely with those huge eyes of his. 'I hope you will 
forgive me,' he said, 'if I tell
you that human beans is thinking they is very clever, but they is not. They is 
nearly all of them
notmuchers and squeakpips.'

'I beg your pardon,' Sophie said.

'The matter with human beans,' the BFG went on, 'is that they is absolutely 
refusing to believe in
anything unless they is actually seeing it right in front of their own 
schnozzles. Of course quogwinkles is
existing. I is meeting them oftenly. I is even chittering to them.' He turned 
away contemptuously from
Sophie and resumed his writing. Sophie moved over to read what he had written 
so far. The letters were
printed big and bold, but were not very well formed. Here is what it said:

THIS DREAM IS ABOUT HOW I IS SAVING MY TEECHER FROM DROWNING. I IS DIVING INTO 
THE RIVER FROM A HIGH BRIDGE
AND I IS DRAGGING MY TEECHER TO THE BANK AND THEN I IS GIVING HIM THE KISS OF 
DEATH . . .


'The kiss of what?' Sophie asked.

The BFG stopped writing and raised his head slowly. His eyes rested on Sophie's 
face. 'I is telling you
once before,' he said quietly, 'that I is never having a chance to go to 
school. I is full of mistakes. They is
not my fault. I do my best. You is a lovely little girl, but please remember 
that you is not exactly Miss
Knoweverything yourself.'

'I'm sorry,' Sophie said. 'I really am. It is very rude of me to keep 
correcting you.'

The BFG gazed at her for a while longer, then he bent his head again to his 
slow laborious writing.

'Tell me honestly,' Sophie said. 'If you blew this dream into my bedroom when I 
was asleep, would I
really and truly start dreaming about how I saved my teacher from drowning by 
diving off the bridge?'

'More,' the BFG said. 'A lot more. But I cannot be squibbling the whole 
gropefluncking dream on a titchy
bit of paper. Of course there is more.'

The BFG laid down his pencil and placed one massive ear close to the jar. For 
about thirty seconds he
listened intently. 'Yes,' he said, nodding his great head solemnly up and down. 
'This dream is continuing
very nice. It has a very dory-hunky ending.'

'How does it end?' Sophie said. 'Please tell me.'

'You would be dreaming,' the BFG said, 'that the morning after you is saving 
the teacher from the river,
you is arriving at school and you is seeing all the five hundred pupils sitting 
in the assembly hall, and all
the teachers as well, and the head teacher is then standing up and saying, "I 
is wanting the whole school
to give three cheers for Sophie because she is so brave and is saving the life 
of our fine arithmatic
teacher, Mr Figgins, who was unfortunately pushed off the bridge into the river 
by our gym-teacher,
Miss Amelia Upscotch. So three cheers for Sophie!" And the whole school is then 
cheering like mad and
shouting bravo well done, and, for ever after that, even when you is getting 
your sums all gungswizzled
and muggled up, Mr Figgins is always giving you ten out of ten and writing Good 
Work Sophie in your
exercise book. Then you is waking up.'

'I like that dream,' Sophie said.


'Of course you like it,' the BFG said. 'It is a phizzwizard.' He licked the 
back of the label and stuck it on
the jar. 'I is usually writing a bit more than this on the labels,' he said. 
'But you is watching me and
making me jumpsy.'

'I'll go and sit somewhere else,' Sophie said.

'Don't go,' he said. 'Look in the jar carefully and I think you will be seeing 
this dream.'

Sophie peered into the jar and there, sure enough, she saw the faint 
translucent outline of something
about the size of a hen's egg. There was just a touch of colour in it, a pale 
sea-green, soft and
shimmering and very beautiful. There it lay, this small oblong sea-green 
jellyish thing, at the bottom of
the           jar, quite peaceful, but pulsing gently, the whole of it moving 
in and out ever so slightly, as though it
were breathing.

'It's moving!' Sophie cried. 'It's alive!'
'Of course it's alive.'

'What will you feed it on?' Sophie asked.

'It is not needing any food,' the BFG told her.

'That's cruel,' Sophie said. 'Everything alive needs food of some sort. Even 
trees and plants.'

'The north wind is alive,' the BFG said. 'It is moving. It touches you on the 
cheek and on the hands. But
nobody is feeding it.'

Sophie was silent. This extraordinary giant was disturbing her ideas. He seemed 
to be leading her
towards mysteries that were beyond her understanding.

'A dream is not needing anything,' the BFG went on. 'If it is a good one, it is 
waiting peaceably for ever
until it is released and allowed to do its job. If it is a bad one, it is 
always fighting to get out.'

The BFG stood up and walked over to one of the many shelves and placed the 
latest jar among the
thousands of others.

'Please can I see some of the other dreams?' Sophie asked him.

The BFG hesitated. 'Nobody is ever seeing them before,' he said. 'But perhaps 
after all I is letting you
have a little peep.' He picked her up off the table and stood her on the palm 
of one of his huge hands.
He carried her towards the shelves. 'Over here is some of the good dreams,' he 
said. 'The phizzwizards.'

'Would you hold me closer so I can read the labels,' Sophie said.

'My labels is only telling bits of it,' the BFG said. 'The dreams is usually 
much longer. The labels is just to
remind me.'


Sophie started to read the labels. The first one seemed long enough to her. It 
went right round the jar,
and as she read it, she had to keep turning the jar. This is what it said:

TODAY I IS SITTING IN CLASS AND I DISCOVER THAT IF I IS STARING VERY HARD AT MY 
TEECHER IN A SPHESHAL WAY, I IS
ABLE TO PUT HER TO SLEEP. SO I KEEP STARING AT HER AND IN THE END HER HEAD 
DROPS ON TO HER DESK AND SHE GOES
FAST TO SLEEP AND SNORKLES LOUDLY. THEN IN MARCHES THE HEAD TEACHER AND HE 
SHOUTS 'WAKE UP MISS
PLUMRIDGE! HOW DARE YOU GO TO SLEEP IN CLASS! GO FETCH YOUR HAT AND COTE AND 
LEAVE THIS SCHOOL FOR EVER!

YOU IS SACKED!' BUT IN A JIFFY I IS PUTTING THE HEAD TEECHER TO SLEEP AS WELL, 
AND HE JUST CRUMPLES SLOWLY TO
THE FLOOR LIKE A LUMP OF JELLY AND THERE HE LIES ALL IN A HEAP AND STARTS 
SNORKELLING EVEN LOWDER THAN MISS
PLUMRIDGE. AND THEN I IS HEARING MY MUMMY'S VOICE SAYING WAKE UP YOUR BREKFUST 
IS REDDY.

'What a funny dream,' Sophie said.

'It's a ringbeller,' the BFG said. 'It's whoppsy.'

Inside the jar, just below the edge of the label, Sophie could see the 
putting-to-sleep dream lying
peacefully on the bottom, pulsing gently, sea-green like the other one, but 
perhaps a trifle larger.

'Do you have separate dreams for boys and for girls?' Sophie asked.

'Of course,' the BFG said. 'If I is giving a girl's dream to a boy, even if it 
was a really whoppsy girl's dream,
the boy would be waking up and thinking what a rotbungling grinksludging old 
dream that was.'

'Boys would,' Sophie said.

'These here is all girls' dreams on this shelf,' the BFG said.
'Can I read a boy's dream?'

'You can,' the BFG said, and he lifted her to a higher shelf. The label on the 
nearest boy's-dream jar read
as follows:

I IS MAKING MYSELF A MARVELUS PAIR OF SUCTION BOOTS AND WHEN I PUT THEM ON I IS 
ABEL TO WALK STRATE UP THE
KITSHUN WALL AND ACROSS THE CEILING. WELL, I IS WALKING UPSIDE DOWN ON THE 
CEILING WEN MY BIG SISTER COMES
IN AND SHE IS STARTING TO YELL AT ME AS SHE ALWAYS DOES, YELLING WOT ON EARTH 
IS YOU DOING UP THERE WALKING
ON THE CEILING AND I LOOKS DOWN AT HER AND I SMILES AND I SAYS I TOLD YOU YOU 
WAS DRIVING ME UP THE WALL
AND NOW YOU HAS DONE IT.


'I find that one rather silly,' Sophie said.

'Boys wouldn't,' the BFG said, grinning. 'It's another ringbeller. Perhaps you 
has seen enough now.'
'Let me read another boy's one,' Sophie said. The next label said:

THE TELLYFONE RINGS IN OUR HOUSE AND MY FATHER PICKS IT UP AND SAYS IN HIS VERY 
IMPORTANT TELLYFONE VOICE
'SIMPKINS SPEAKING'. THEN HIS FACE GOES WHITE AND HIS VOICE GOES ALL FUNNY AND 
HE SAYS 'WHAT! WHO?' AND
THEN            HE SAYS 'YES SIR I UNDERSTAND SIR BUT SURELY IT IS ME YOU IS 
WISHING TO SPEKE TO SIR NOT MY LITTLE SON?' MY
FATHER'S FACE IS GOING FROM WHITE TO DARK PURPEL AND HE IS GULPING LIKE HE HAS 
A LOBSTER STUCK IN HIS THROTE
AND THEN AT LAST HE IS SAYING 'YES SIR VERY WELL SIR I WILL GET HIM SIR' AND HE 
TURNS TO ME AND HE SAYS IN A
RATHER RESPECKFUL VOICE 'IS YOU KNOWING THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES?' 
AND I SAYS 'NO BUT I EXPECT HE IS
HEARING ABOUT ME.' THEN I IS HAVING A LONG TALK ON THE FONE AND SAYING THINGS 
LIKE 'LET ME TAKE CARE OF IT, MR
PRESIDENT. YOU'LL BUNGLE IT ALL UP IF YOU DO IT YOUR WAY'. AND MY FATHER'S EYES 
IS GOGGLING RIGHT OUT OF HIS
HEAD       AND THAT IS WHEN I IS HEARING MY FATHER'S REAL VOICE SAYING GET UP 
YOU LAZY SLOB OR YOU WILL BE LATE FOR
SKOOL.

'Boys are crazy,' Sophie said. 'Let me read this next one.' Sophie started 
reading the next label:

I IS HAVING A BATH AND I IS DISCOVERING THAT IF I PRESS QUITE HARD ON MY TUMMY 
BUTTON A FUNNY FEELING COMES
OVER ME AND SUDDENLEY MY LEGS IS NOT THERE NOR IS MY ARMS. IN FACT I HAS BECOME 
ABSOLOOTLY INVISIBLE ALL


OVER. I IS STILL THERE BUT NO ONE CAN SEE ME NOT EVEN MYSELF. SO MY MUMMY COMES 
IN AND SAYS 'WHERE IS THAT
CHILD! HE WAS IN THE BATH A MINIT AGO AND HE CAN'T POSSIBLY HAVE WASHED HIMSELF 
PROPERLY!' SO I SAYS 'HERE I
IS' AND SHE SAYS 'WHERE?' AND I SAYS 'HERE' AND SHE SAYS 'WHERE?' AND I SAYS 
'HERE!' AND SHE YELLS 'HENRY! COME
UP QUICK!' AND WHEN MY DADDY RUSHES IN I IS WASHING MYSELF AND MY DADDY SEES 
THE SOAP FLOATING AROUND IN
THE AIR BUT OF CORSE HE IS NOT SEEING ME AND HE SHOUTS 'WHERE ARE YOU BOY?' AND 
I SAYS 'HERE' AND HE SAYS
'WHERE?' AND I SAYS 'HERE' AND HE SAYS 'WHERE?' AND I SAYS 'HERE!' AND HE SAYS 
'THE SOAP, BOY! THE SOAP! IT'S
FLYING      IN THE AIR!' THEN I PRESS MY TUMMY BUTTON AGAIN AND NOW I IS 
VISIBLE. MY DADDY IS SQUIFFY WITH EX-
CITEMENT AND HE SAYS 'YOU IS THE INVISIBLE BOY!' AND I SAYS 'NOW I IS GOING TO 
HAVE SOME FUN,' SO WHEN I IS OUT
OF      THE BATH AND I HAVE DRIED MYSELF I PUT ON MY DRESSING-GOWN AND SLIPPERS 
AND I PRESS MY TUMMY BUTTON
AGAIN TO BECOME INVISIBLE AND I GO DOWN INTO THE TOWN AND WALK IN THE STREETS. 
OF CORSE ONLY ME IS
INVISIBLE  BUT NOT THE THINGS I IS WEARING SO WHEN PEEPLE IS SEEING A 
DRESSING-GOWN AND SLIPPERS FLOATING

ALONG THE STREET WITH NOBODY IN IT THERE IS A PANIC WITH EVERYBODY YELLING 'A 
GHOST! A GHOST!' AND PEEPLE IS
SCREAMING LEFT AND RIGHT AND BIG STRONG POLICEMEN IS RUNNING FOR THEIR LIVES 
AND BEST OF ALL I SEE MR
GRUMMIT MY ALGEBRA TEECHER COMING OUT OF A PUB AND I FLOAT UP TO HIM AND SAY 
'BOO!' AND HE LETS OUT A
FRIGHTSOME HOWL AND DASHES BACK INTO THE PUB AND THEN I IS WAKING UP AND 
FEELING HAPPY AS A
WHIFFSQUIDDLER.

'Pretty ridiculous,' Sophie said. All the same, she couldn't resist reaching 
down and pressing her own
tummy button to see if it worked. Nothing happened.

'Dreams is very mystical things,' the BFG said. 'Human beans is not 
understanding them at all. Not even
their brainiest prossefors is understanding them. Has you seen enough?'

'Just this last one,' Sophie said. 'This one here.'
She started reading:

I HAS RITTEN A BOOK AND IT IS SO EXCITING NOBODY CAN PUT IT DOWN. AS SOON AS 
YOU HAS RED THE FIRST LINE YOU IS
SO HOOKED ON IT YOU CANNOT STOP UNTIL THE LAST PAGE. IN ALL THE CITIES PEEPLE 
IS WALKING IN THE STREETS
BUMPING INTO EACH OTHER BECAUSE THEIR FACES IS BURIED IN MY BOOK AND DENTISTS 
IS READING IT AND TRYING TO
FILL TEETHS AT THE SAME TIME BUT NOBODY MINDS BECAUSE THEY IS ALL READING IT 
TOO IN THE DENTIST'S CHAIR.
DRIVERS IS READING IT WHILE DRIVING AND CARS IS CRASHING ALL OVER THE COUNTRY. 
BRAIN SURGEONS IS READING IT
WHILE THEY IS OPERATING ON BRAINS AND AIRLINE PILOTS IS READING IT AND GOING TO 
TIMBUCTOO INSTEAD OF
LONDON. FOOTBALL PLAYERS IS READING IT ON THE FIELD BECAUSE THEY CAN'T PUT IT 
DOWN AND SO IS OLIMPICK
RUNNERS WHILE THEY IS RUNNING. EVERYBODY HAS TO SEE WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN 
NEXT IN MY BOOK AND WHEN I


WAKE UP I IS STILL TINGLING WITH EXCITEMENT AT BEING THE GREATEST RITER THE 
WORLD HAS EVER KNOWN UNTIL MY
MUMMY COMES IN AND SAYS I WAS LOOKING AT YOUR ENGLISH EXERCISE BOOK LAST NITE 
AND REALLY YOUR SPELLING IS
ATROSHUS SO IS YOUR PUNTULASHON.

'That's enough for now,' the BFG said. 'There is dillions more but my arm is 
getting tired holding you up.'
'What are all those over there?' Sophie said. 'Why have they got such tiny 
labels?'

'That,' the BFG said, 'is because one day I is catching so many dreams I is not 
having the time or energy
to write out long labels. But there is enough to remind me.'

'Can I look?' Sophie said.

The long-suffering BFG carried her across to the jars she was pointing to. 
Sophie read them rapidly, one
after the other:



'What amazes me,' Sophie said, 'is how you ever learned to write in the first 
place.'
'Ah,' said the BFG. 'I has been wondering how long it is before you is asking 
me that.'

'Considering you never went to school, I think it's quite marvellous,' Sophie 
said. 'How did you learn?'

The BFG crossed the cave and opened a tiny secret door in the wall. He took out 
a book, very old and
tattered. By human standards, it was an ordinary sized book, but it looked like 
a postage stamp in his
huge hand.

'One night,' he said, 'I is blowing a dream through a window and I sees this 
book lying on the little boy's
bedroom table. I wanted it so very badly, you understand. But I is refusing to 
steal it. I would never do
that.'

'So how did you get it?' Sophie asked.

'I borrowed it,' the BFG said, smiling a little. 'Just for a short time I 
borrowed it.'
'How long have you had it?' Sophie asked.


'Perhaps only about eighty years,' the BFG said. 'Soon I shall be putting it 
back.'
'And that's how you taught yourself to write?' Sophie asked him.

'I is reading it hundreds of times,' the BFG said. 'And I is still reading it 
and teaching new words to myself
and how to write them. It is the most scrumdiddlyumptious story.'

Sophie took the book out of his hand. Nicholas Nickleby,' she read aloud.
'By Dahl's Chickens,' the BFG said.

'By who?' Sophie said.

Just then, there came a tremendous noise of galloping feet from outside the 
cave. 'What's that?' Sophie
cried.

'That is all the giants zippfizzing off to another country to guzzle human 
beans,' the BFG said. He quickly
popped Sophie into his waistcoat pocket, then hurried to the cave entrance and 
rolled back the stone.

Sophie, peeping out of her spy-hole, saw all nine of the fearsome giants coming 
past at full gallop.
'Where is you off to tonight?' shouted the BFG.

'We is all of us flushbunking off to England tonight,' answered the 
Fleshlumpeater as they went galloping
past. 'England is a luctuous land and we is fancying a few nice little English 
chiddlers.'

'I,' shouted the Maidmasher, 'is knowing where there is a gigglehouse for girls 
and I is guzzling myself
full as a frothblower!'

'And I knows where there is a bogglebox for boys!' shouted the Gizzardgulper. 
'All I has to do is reach in
and grab myself a handful! English boys is tasting extra lickswishy!'

In a few seconds, the nine galloping giants were out of sight.

'What did he mean?' Sophie said, poking her head out of the pocket. 'What is a 
gigglehouse for girls?'
'He is meaning a girls' school,' the BFG said. 'He will be eating them by the 
bundle.'

'Oh no!' cried Sophie.


'And boys from a boys' school,' said the BFG.

'It mustn't happen!' Sophie cried out. 'We've got to stop them! We can't just 
sit here and do nothing!'

'There's not a thing we can do,' the BFG said. 'We is helpless as 
horsefeathers.' He sat down on a large
craggy blue rock near the entrance to his cave. He took Sophie from his pocket 
and put her beside him
on the rock. 'It is now quite safe for you to be outside until they is coming 
back,' he said.

The sun had dipped below the horizon and it was getting dark.


The Great Plan

'We've absolutely got to stop them!' Sophie cried. 'Put me back in your pocket 
quick and we'll chase
after them and warn everyone in England they're coming.'

'Redunculus andum-possiple,' the BFG said. 'They is going two times as fast as 
me and they is finishing
their guzzle before we is halfway.'

'But we can't just sit here doing nothing!' Sophie cried. 'How many girls and 
boys are they going to eat
tonight?'

'Many,' the BFG said. 'The Fleshlumpeating Giant alone has a most squackling 
whoppsy appetite.'
'Will he snatch them out of their beds while they're sleeping?'

'Like peas out of a poddle,' the BFG said.
'I can't bear to think of it!' Sophie cried.

'Then don't,' the BFG said. 'For years and years I is sitting here on this very 
rock every night after night
when they is galloping away, and I is feeling so sad for all the human beans 
they is going to gobble up.
But    I has had to get used to it. There is nothing I can do. If I wasn't a 
titchy little runty giant only twenty-
four feet high then I would be stopping them. But that is absolutely out of the 
window.'

'Do you always know where they're going?' Sophie asked.

'Always,' the BFG said. 'Every night they is yelling at me as they go bootling 
past. The other day they was
yelling "We is off to Mrs Sippi and Miss Souri to guzzle them both!"'

'Disgusting,' Sophie said. 'I hate them.'

She and the Big Friendly Giant sat quietly side by side on the blue rock in the 
gathering dusk. Sophie had
never felt so helpless in her life. After a while, she stood up and cried out, 
'I can't stand it! Just think of
those poor girls and boys who are going to be eaten alive in a few hours time! 
We can't just sit here and
do nothing! We've got to go after those brutes!'

'No,' the BFG said.

'We must!' Sophie cried. 'Why won't you go?'

The BFG sighed and shook his head firmly. 'I has told you five or six times,' 
he said, 'and the third will be
the last. I is never showing myself to human beans.'

'Why ever not?'

'If I do, they will be putting me in the zoo with all the jiggyraffes and 
cattypiddlers.'


'Nonsense,' Sophie said.

'And they will be sending you straight back to a norphanage,' the BFG went on. 
'Grown-up human beans
is not famous for their kindnesses. They is all squifflerotters and 
grinksludgers.'

'That simply isn't true!' Sophie cried angrily. 'Some of them are very kind 
indeed.'
'Who?' the BFG said. 'Name one.'

'The Queen of England,' Sophie said. 'You can't call her a squifflerotter or a 
grinksludger.'
'Well ...' the BFG said.

'You can't call her a squeakpip or a notmucher either,' Sophie said, getting 
angrier and angrier.
'The Fleshlumpeater is longing dearly to guzzle her up,' the BFG said, smiling 
a little now.
'Who, the Queen?' Sophie cried, aghast.

'Yes,' the BFG answered. 'Fleshlumpeater says he is never eating a queen and he 
thinks perhaps she has
an especially scrumdiddlyumptious flavour.'

'How dare he!' Sophie cried.


'But Fleshlumpeater says there is too many soldiers around her palace and he 
dursent try it.'
'He'd better not!' Sophie said.

'He is also saying he would like very much to guzzle one of the soldiers in his 
pretty red suit but he is
worried about those big black furry hats they is wearing. He thinks they might 
be sticking in his throat.'

'I hope he chokes,' Sophie said.

'Fleshlumpeater is a very careful giant,' the BFG said.

Sophie was silent for a few moments. Then suddenly, in a voice filled with 
excitement, she cried out,
'I've got it! By golly, I think I've got it!'

'Got what?' asked the BFG.

'The answer!' cried Sophie. 'We'll go to the Queen! It's a terrific idea! If I 
went and told the Queen about
these disgusting man-eating giants, I'm sure she'd do something about it!'

The BFG looked down at her sadly and shook his head. 'She is never believing 
you,' he said. 'Never in a
month of Mondays.'

'I think she would.'

'Never,' the BFG said. 'It is sounding such a wonky tall story, the Queen will 
be laughing and saying
"What awful rubbsquash!'"

'She would not!'

'Of course she would,' the BFG said. 'I has told you before that human beans is 
simply not believing in
giants.'

'Then it's up to us to find a way of making her believe in them,' Sophie said.
'And how is you getting in to see the Queen anyway?' the BFG asked.

'Now hold on a sec,' Sophie said. 'Just you hold on a sec because I've got 
another idea.'
'Your ideas is full of crodswoggle,' the BFG said.

'Not this one,' Sophie said. 'You say that if we tell the Queen, she would 
never believe us?'
'I is certain she wouldn't,' the BFG said.

'But we aren't going to tell her!' Sophie said excitedly. 'We don't have to 
tell her! We'll make her dream

it!'


'That is an even more frothbungling suggestion,' the BFG said. 'Dreams is lots 
of fun but nobody is
believing in dreams either. You is only believing in a dream while you is 
actually dreaming it. But as soon
as    you is waking up you is saying "Oh thank goodness it was only a dream".'

'Don't you worry about that part of it,' Sophie said. 'I can fix that.'
'Never can you fix it,' the BFG said.

'I can! I swear I can! But first of all, let me ask you a very important 
question. Here it is. Can you make a
person dream absolutely anything in the world?'

'Anything you like,' the BFG said proudly.

'If I said I wanted to dream that I was in a flying bathtub with silver wings, 
could you make me dream it?'
'I could,' the BFG said.

'But how?' Sophie said. 'You obviously don't have exactly that dream in your 
collection.'
'I do not,' the BFG said. 'But I could soon be mixing it up.'

'How could you mix it up?'

'It is a little bit like mixing a cake,' the BFG said. 'If you is putting the 
right amounts of all the different
things into it, you is making the cake come out any way you want, sugary, 
splongy, curranty, Christmassy
or grobswitchy. It is the same with dreams.'

'Go on,' Sophie said.

'I has dillions of dreams on my shelfs, right or left?'
'Right,' Sophie said.

'I has dreams about bathtubs, lots of them. I has dreams about silver wings. I 
has dreams about flying.
So all I has to do is mix those dreams together in the proper way and I is very 
quickly making a dream
where you is flying in a bathtub with silver wings.'

'I see what you mean,' Sophie said. 'But I didn't know you could mix one dream 
with another.'

'Dreams like being mixed,' the BFG answered. 'They is getting very lonesome all 
by themselves in those
glassy bottles.'

'Right,' Sophie said. 'Now then, do you have dreams about the Queen of England?'
'Lots of them,' the BFG said.

'And about giants?'

'Of course,' the BFG said.


'And about giants eating people?'
'Swiggles of them,' the BFG said.
'And about little girls like me?'

'Those is commonest of all,' the BFG said. 'I has bottles and bottles of dreams 
about little girls.'

'And you could mix them all up just as I want you to?' Sophie asked, getting 
more and more excited.
'Of course,' the BFG said. 'But how is this helping us? I think you is barking 
up the wrong dog.'

'Now hold on,' Sophie said. 'Listen carefully. I want you to mix a dream which 
you will blow into the
Queen of England's bedroom when she is asleep. And this is how it will go.'

'Now hang on a mintick,' the BFG said. 'How is I possibly going to get near 
enough to the Queen of
England's bedroom to blow in my dream? You is talking dumbsilly.'

'I'll tell you that later,' Sophie said. 'For the moment please listen 
carefully. Here is the dream I want you
to mix. Are you paying attention?'

'Very close,' the BFG said.

'I want the Queen to dream that nine disgusting giants, each one about fifty 
feet tall, are galloping to
England in the night. She must dream their names as well. What are their names 
again?'

'Fleshlumpeater,' the BFG said. 'Manhugger. Bonecruncher. Childchewer. 
Meatdripper. Gizzardgulper.
Maidmasher. Bloodbottler. And the Butcher Boy.'

'Let her dream all those names,' Sophie said. 'And let her dream that they will 
be creeping into England
in the depths of the witching hour and snatching little boys and girls from 
their beds. Let her dream that
they will be reaching into the bedroom windows and pulling the little boys and 
girls out of their beds
and then ...' Sophie paused. 'Do they eat them on the spot or do they carry 
them away first?' she asked.

'They is usually just popping them straight into their mouths like popcorn,' 
the BFG said.

'Put that in the dream,' Sophie said. 'And then ... then the dream must say 
that when their tummies are
full, they will go galloping back to Giant Country where no one can find them.'

'Is that all?' the BFG said.

'Certainly not,' Sophie said. 'You must then explain to the Queen in her dream 
that there is a Big Friendly
Giant who can tell her where all those beasts are living, so that she can send 
her soldiers and her armies
to capture them once and for all. And now let her dream one last and very 
important thing. Let her
dream that there is a little girl called Sophie sitting on her window-sill who 
will tell her where the Big
Friendly Giant is hiding.'

'Where is he hiding?' asked the BFG.


'We'll come to that later,' Sophie said. 'So the Queen dreams her dream, right?'
'Right,' the BFG said.

'Then she wakes up and the first thing she thinks is oh what a horrid dream. 
I'm so glad it was only a
dream. And then she looks up from her pillow and what does she see?'

'What does she see?' the BFG asked.

'She sees a little girl called Sophie sitting on her window-sill, right there 
in real life before her very eyes.'
'How is you going to be sitting on the Queen's window-sill, may I beg?' the BFG 
said.

'You are going to put me there,' Sophie said. 'And that's the lovely part about 
it. If someone dreams that
there is a little girl sitting on her window-sill and then she wakes up and 
sees that the little girl really is
sitting there, that is a dream come true, is it not?'

'I is beginning to see where you is driving to,' the BFG said. 'If the Queen is 
knowing that part of her
dream is true, then perhaps she is believing the rest of it is true as well.'

'That's about it,' Sophie said. 'But I shall have to convince her of that 
myself.'

'You said you is wanting the dream to say there is a Big Friendly Giant who is 
also going to talk to the
Queen?'

'Absolutely,' Sophie said. 'You must. You are the only one who can tell her 
where to find the other
giants.'

'How is I meeting the Queen?' asked the BFG. 'I is not wanting to be shooted at 
by her soldiers.'
'The soldiers are only in the front of the Palace,' Sophie said. 'At the back 
there is a huge garden and

there are no soldiers in there at all. There is a very high wall with spikes on 
it around the garden to stop
people climbing in. But you could simply walk over that.'

'How is you knowing all this about the Queen's Palace?' the BFG asked.

'Last year I was in a different orphanage,' Sophie said. 'It was in London and 
we used to go for walks all
around there.'

'Is you helping me to find this Palace?' the BFG asked. 'I has never dared to 
go hide and sneaking around
London in my life.'

'I'll show you the way,' Sophie said confidently.
'I is frightened of London,' the BFG said.

'Don't be,' Sophie said. 'It's full of tiny dark streets and there are very few 
people about in the witching
hour.'


The BFG picked Sophie up between one finger and a thumb and placed her gently 
in the palm of the
other hand. 'Is the Queen's Palace very big?' he asked.

'Huge,' Sophie said.

'Then how is we finding the right bedroom?'

'That's up to you,' Sophie said. 'You're supposed to be an expert at that sort 
of thing.'
'And you is absolutely sure the Queen will not put me in a zoo with all the 
cattypiddlers?'

'Of course she won't,' Sophie said. 'You'll be a hero. And you'll never have to 
eat snozzcumbers again.'
Sophie saw the BFG's eyes widen. He licked his lips.

'You mean it?' he said. 'You really mean it? No more disgustive snozzcumbers?'
'You couldn't get one if you wanted to,' Sophie said. 'Humans don't grow them.'

That did it. The BFG got to his feet. 'When is you wanting me to mix this 
special dream?' he asked.
'Now,' Sophie said. 'At once.'

'When is we going to see the Queen?' he said.

'Tonight,' Sophie said. 'As soon as you've mixed the dream.'
'Tonight?' the BFG cried. 'Why such a flushbunking flurry?'

'If we can't save tonight's children, we can anyway save tomorrow's,' Sophie 
said. 'What is more, I'm
getting famished. I haven't had a thing to eat for twenty-four hours.'

'Then we had better get crackling,' the BFG said, moving back towards the cave.

Sophie kissed him on the tip of his thumb. 'I knew you'd do it!' she said. 
'Come on! Let's hurry!'


Mixing the Dream

It was dark now. The night had already begun. The BFG, with Sophie sitting on 
his hand, hurried into the
cave and put on those brilliant blinding lights that seemed to come from 
nowhere. He placed Sophie on
the table. 'Stay there please,' he said, 'and no chittering. I is needing to 
listen only to silence when I is
mixing up such a knotty plexicated dream as this.'

He hurried away from her. He got out an enormous empty glass jar that was the 
size of a washing
machine. He clutched it to his chest and hurried towards the shelves on which 
stood the thousands and
thousands of smaller jars containing the captured dreams.

'Dreams about giants,' he muttered to himself as he searched the labels. 'The 
giants is guzzling human
beans ... no, not that one ... nor that one ... here's one! ... And here's 
another! ...' He grabbed the jars
and unscrewed the tops. He tipped the dreams into the enormous jar he was 
clutching and as each one
went in, Sophie caught a glimpse of a small sea-green blob tumbling from one 
jar into the other.

The BFG hurried towards another shelf. 'Now,' he muttered, 'I is wanting dreams 
about gigglehouses for
girls ... and about boggleboxes for boys.' He was becoming very tense now. 
Sophie could almost see the
excitement bubbling inside him as he scurried back and forth among his beloved 
jars. There must have


been fifty thousand dreams altogether up there on the shelves, but he seemed to 
know almost exactly
where every one of them was. 'Dreams about a little girl,' he muttered. 'And 
dreams about me ... about
the BFG ... come on, come on, hurry up, get on with it ... now where in the 
wonky world is I keeping
those? ...'

And so it went on. In about half an hour the BFG had found all the dreams he 
wanted and had tipped
them into the one huge jar. He put the jar on the table. Sophie sat watching 
him but said nothing. Inside
the big jar, lying on the bottom of it, she could clearly see about fifty of 
those oval sea-green jellyish
shapes, all pulsing gently in and out, some lying on top of others, but each 
one still a quite separate
individual dream.

'Now we is mixing them,' the BFG announced. He went to the cupboard where he 
kept his bottles of
frobscottle, and from it he took out a gigantic egg-beater. It was one of those 
that has a handle which
you          turn, and down below there are a lot of overlapping blades that go 
whizzing round. He inserted the
bottom end of this contraption into the big jar where the dreams were lying. 
'Watch,' he said. He started
turning the handle very fast.

Flashes of green and blue exploded inside the jar. The dreams were being 
whisked into a sea-green
froth.

'The poor things!' Sophie cried.

'They is not feeling it,' the BFG said as he turned the handle. 'Dreams is not 
like human beans or animals.
They has no brains. They is made of zozimus.'

After about a minute, the BFG stopped whisking. The whole bottle was now full 
to the brim with large
bubbles. They were almost exactly like the bubbles we ourselves blow from soapy 
water, except that
these had even brighter and more beautiful colours swimming on their surfaces.

'Keep watching,' the BFG said.


Quite slowly, the topmost bubble rose up through the neck of the jar and 
floated away. A second one
followed. Then a third and a fourth. Soon the cave was filled with hundreds of 
beautifully coloured
bubbles, all drifting gently through the air. It was truly a wonderful sight. 
As Sophie watched them, they
all started floating towards the cave entrance, which was still open.

'They're going out,' Sophie whispered.
'Of course,' the BFG said.

'Where to?'

'Those is all little tiny dream-bits that I isn't using,' the BFG said. 'They 
is going back to the misty country
to join up with proper dreams.'

'It's all a bit beyond me,' Sophie said.

'Dreams is full of mystery and magic,' the BFG said. 'Do not try to understand 
them. Look in the big
bottle and you will now see the dream you is wanting for the Queen.'

Sophie turned and stared into the great jar. On the bottom of it, something was 
thrashing around wildly,
bouncing up and down and flinging itself against the walls of the jar. 'Good 
heavens!' she cried. 'Is that
it?'

'That's it,' the BFG said proudly.

'But it's ... it's horrible!' Sophie cried. 'It's jumping about! It wants to 
get out!'
'That's because it's a trogglehumper,' the BFG said. 'It's a nightmare.'

'Oh, but I don't want you to give the Queen a nightmare!' Sophie cried.

'If she is dreaming about giants guzzling up little boys and girls, then what 
is you expecting it to be
except a nightmare?' the BFG said.

'Oh, no!' Sophie cried.

'Oh, yes,' the BFG said. 'A dream where you is seeing little chiddlers being 
eaten is about the most
frightsome trogglehumping dream you can get. It's a kicksy bogthumper. It's a 
whoppsy grobswitcher. It
is            all of them riddled into one. It is as bad as that dream I blew 
into the Fleshlumpeater this afternoon. It
is worse.'

Sophie stared down at the fearful nightmare dream that was still thrashing away 
in the huge glass jar. It
was much larger than the others. It was about the size and shape of, shall we 
say, a turkey's egg. It was
jellyish. It had tinges of bright scarlet deep inside it. There was something 
terrible about the way it was
throwing itself against the sides of the jar.

'I don't want to give the Queen a nightmare,' Sophie said.


'I is thinking,' the BFG said, 'that your Queen will be happy to have a 
nightmare if having a nightmare is
going to save a lot of human beans from being gobbled up by filthsome giants. 
Is I right or is I left?'

'I suppose you're right,' Sophie said. 'It's got to be done.'
'She will soon be getting over it,' the BFG said.

'Have you put all the other important things into it?' Sophie asked.

'When I is blowing that dream into the Queen's bedroom,' the BFG said, 'she 
will be dreaming every
single little thingalingaling you is asking me to make her dream.'

'About me sitting on the window-sill?'
'That part is very strong.'

'And about a Big Friendly Giant?'

'I is putting in a nice long gobbit about him,' the BFG said. As he spoke, he 
picked up one of his smaller
jars and very quickly tipped the struggling thrashing trogglehumper out of the 
large jar into the small
one. Then he screwed the lid tightly on to the small jar.

'That's it,' he announced. 'We is now ready.' He fetched his suitcase and put 
the small jar into it.

'Why bother to take a great big suitcase when you've only got one jar?' Sophie 
said. 'You could put the
jar in your pocket.'

The BFG looked down at her and smiled. 'By goggles,' he said, taking the jar 
out of the suitcase, 'your
head is not quite so full of grimesludge after all! I can see you is not born 
last week.'

'Thank you, kind sir,' Sophie said, making a little curtsey from the table-top.
'Is you ready to leave?' the BFG asked.

'I'm ready!' Sophie cried. Her heart was beginning to thump at the thought of 
what they were about to
do. It really was a wild and crazy thing. Perhaps they would both be thrown 
into prison.

The BFG was putting on his great black cloak.


He tucked the jar into a pocket in his cloak. He picked up his long 
trumpet-like dream-blower. Then he
turned and looked at Sophie who was still on the table-top. 'The dream-bottle 
is in my pocket,' he said.
'Is you going to sit in there with it during the travel?'

'Never!' cried Sophie. 'I refuse to sit next to that beastly thing!'
'Then where is you going to sit?' the BFG asked her.

Sophie looked him over for a few moments. Then she said, 'If you would be kind 
enough to swivel one of
your lovely big ears so that it is lying flat like a dish, that would make a 
very cosy place for me to sit.'

'By gumbo, that is a squackling good idea!' the BFG said.

Slowly, he swivelled his huge right ear until it was like a great shell facing 
the heavens. He lifted Sophie
up and placed her into it. The ear itself, which was about the size of a large 
tea-tray, was full of the same
channels and crinkles as a human ear. It was extremely comfortable.

'I hope I don't fall down your earhole,' Sophie said, edging away from the 
large hole just beside her.
'Be very careful not to do that,' the BFG said. 'You would be giving me a 
cronking earache.'

The nice thing about being there was that she could whisper directly into his 
ear.
'You is tickling me a bit,' the BFG said. 'Please do not jiggle about.'

'I'll try not to,' Sophie said. 'Are we ready?'
'Oweeee!' yelled the BFG. 'Don't do that!'
'I didn't do anything,' Sophie said.

'You is talking too loud! You is forgetting that I is hearing every little 
thingalingaling fifty times louder
than usual and there you is shouting away right inside my ear!'

'Oh gosh,' Sophie murmured. 'I forgot that.'

'Your voice is sounding like tunder and thrumpets!'
'I'm so sorry,' Sophie whispered. 'Is that better?'

'No!' cried the BFG. 'It sounds as though you is shootling off a bunderbluss!'
'Then how can I talk to you?' Sophie whispered.

'Don't!' cried the poor BFG. 'Please don't! Each word is like you is dropping 
buzzbombs in my earhole!'

Sophie tried speaking right under her breath. 'Is this better?' she said. She 
spoke so softly she couldn't
even hear her own voice.


'That's better,' the BFG said. 'Now I is hearing you very nicely. What is it 
you is trying to say to me just
now?'

'I was saying are we ready?'

'We is off!' cried the BFG, heading for the cave entrance. 'We is off to meet 
Her Majester the Queen!'
Outside the cave, he rolled the large round stone back into place and set off 
at a tremendous gallop.


Journey to London

The great yellow wasteland lay dim and milky in the moonlight as the Big 
Friendly Giant went galloping
across it.

Sophie, still wearing only her nightie, was reclining comfortably in a crevice 
of the BFG's right ear. She
was actually in the outer rim of the ear, near the top, where the edge of the 
ear folds over, and this
folding-over bit made a sort of roof for her and gave her wonderful protection 
against the rushing wind.
What        is more, she was lying on skin that was soft and warm and almost 
velvety. Nobody, she told
herself, had ever travelled in greater comfort.

Sophie peeped over the rim of the ear and watched the desolate landscape of 
Giant Country go whizzing
by. They were certainly moving fast. The BFG went bouncing off the ground as 
though there were
rockets in his toes and each stride he took lifted him about a hundred feet 
into the air. But he had not
yet  gone into that whizzing top gear of his, when the ground became blurred by 
speed and the wind
howled and his feet didn't seem to be touching anything but air. That would 
come later.

Sophie had not slept for a long time. She was very tired. She was also warm and 
comfortable. She dozed
off.

She didn't know how long she slept, but when she woke up again and looked out 
over the edge of the
ear, the landscape had changed completely. They were in a green country now, 
with mountains and
forests. It was still dark but the moon was shining as brightly as ever.

Suddenly and without slowing his pace, the BFG turned his head sharply to the 
left. For the first time
during the entire journey he spoke a few words. 'Look quick-quick over there,' 
he said, pointing his long
trumpet.

Sophie looked in the direction he was pointing. Through the murky darkness all 
she saw at first was a
great cloud of dust about three hundred yards away.

'Those is the other giants all galloping back home after their guzzle,' the BFG 
said.

Then Sophie saw them. In the light of the moon, she saw all nine of those 
monstrous half-naked brutes
thundering across the landscape together. They were galloping in a pack, their 
necks craned forward,
their arms bent at the elbows, and worst of all, their stomachs bulging. The 
strides they took were


incredible. Their speed was unbelievable. Their feet pounded and thundered on 
the ground and left a
great sheet of dust behind them. But in ten seconds they were gone.

'A lot of little girlsies and boysies is no longer sleeping in their beds 
tonight,' the BFG said.
Sophie felt quite ill.

But this grim encounter made her more than ever determined to go through with 
her mission.

It must have been about an hour or so later that the BFG began to slow his 
pace. 'We is in England now,'
he said suddenly.

Dark though it was, Sophie could see that they were in a country of green 
fields with neat hedges in
between the fields. There were hills with trees all over them and occasionally 
there were roads with the
lights of cars moving along. Each time they came to a road, the BFG was over it 
and away, and no
motorist could possibly have seen anything except a quick black shadow flashing 
overhead.

All at once, a curious orange-coloured glow appeared in the night sky ahead of 
them.
'We is coming close to London,' the BFG said.

He slowed to a trot. He began looking about cautiously.

Groups of houses were now appearing on all sides. But there were still no 
lights in their windows. It was
too early for anyone to be getting up yet.

'Someone's bound to see us,' Sophie said.


'Never is they seeing me,' the BFG said confidently. 'You is forgetting that I 
is doing this sort of thing for
years and years and years. No human bean is ever catching even the smallest 
wink of me.'

'I did,' Sophie whispered.

'Ah,' he said. 'Yes. But you was the very first.'

During the next half-hour, things moved so swiftly and so silently that Sophie, 
crouching in the giant's
ear, was unable to understand exactly what was going on. They were in streets. 
There were houses
everywhere. Sometimes there were shops. There were bright lamps in the streets. 
There were quite a
few     people about and there were cars with lights on. But nobody ever 
noticed the BFG. It was
impossible to understand quite how he did it. There was a kind of magic in his 
movements. He seemed
to       melt into the shadows. He would glide — that was the only word to 
describe his way of moving — he
would glide noiselessly from one dark place to another, always moving, always 
gliding forward through
the streets of London, his black cloak blending with the shadows of the night.

It is quite possible that one or two late-night wanderers might have thought 
they saw a tall black
shadow skimming swiftly down a murky sidestreet, but even if they had, they 
would never have believed
their own eyes. They would have dismissed it as an illusion and blamed 
themselves for seeing things that
weren't there.

Sophie and the BFG came at last to a large place full of trees. There was a 
road running through it, and a
lake. There were no people in this place and the BFG stopped for the first time 
since they had set out
from his cave many hours before.

'What's the matter?' Sophie whispered in her under-the-breath voice.
'I is in a bit of a puddle,' he said.

'You're doing marvellously,' Sophie whispered.

'No, I isn't,' he said. 'I is now completely boggled. I is lost.'
'But why?'

'Because we is meant to be in the middle of London and suddenly we is in green 
pastures.'

'Don't be silly,' Sophie whispered. 'This is the middle of London. It's called 
Hyde Park. I know exactly
where we are.'

'You is joking.'

'I'm not. I swear I'm not. We're almost there.'

'You mean we is nearly at the Queen's Palace?' cried the BFG.

'It's just across the road,' Sophie whispered. 'This is where I take over.'


'Which way?' the BFG asked.

'Straight ahead.'

The BFG trotted forward through the deserted park.
'Now stop.'

The BFG stopped.

'You see that huge roundabout ahead of us just outside the Park?' Sophie 
whispered.
'I see it.'

'That is Hyde Park Corner.'

Even now, when it was still an hour before dawn, there was quite a lot of 
traffic moving around Hyde
Park Corner.

Then Sophie whispered, 'In the middle of the roundabout there is an enormous 
stone arch with a statue
of a horse and rider on top of it. Can you see that?'

The BFG peered through the trees. 'I is seeing it,' he said.

'Do you think that if you took a very fast run at it, you could jump clear over 
Hyde Park Corner, over the
arch and over the horse and rider and land on the pavement the other side?'

'Easy,' the BFG said.


'You're sure? You're absolutely sure?'
'I promise,' the BFG said.

'Whatever you do, you mustn't land in the middle of Hyde Park Corner.'

'Don't get so flussed,' the BFG said. 'To me that is a snitchy little jump. 
There's not a thingalingaling to it.'
'Then go!' Sophie whispered.

The BFG broke into a full gallop. He went scorching across the Park and just 
before he reached the
railings that divided it from the street, he took off. It was a gigantic leap. 
He flew high over Hyde Park
Corner and landed as softly as a cat on the pavement the other side.

'Well done!' Sophie whispered. 'Now quick! Over that wall!'

Directly in front of them, bordering the pavement, there was a brick wall with 
fearsome-looking spikes
all along the top of it. A swift crouch, a little leap and the BFG was over it.

'We're there!' Sophie whispered excitedly. 'We're in the Queen's back garden!'


The Palace

'By gumdrops!' whispered the Big Friendly Giant. 'Is this really it?'
'There's the Palace,' Sophie whispered back.

Not more than a hundred yards away, through the tall trees in the garden, 
across the mown lawns and
the tidy flower-beds, the massive shape of the Palace itself loomed through the 
darkness. It was made
of whitish stone. The sheer size of it staggered the BFG.

'But this place is having a hundred bedrooms at least!' he said.
'Easily, I should think,' Sophie whispered.

'Then I is boggled,' the BFG said. 'How is I possibly finding the one where the 
Queen is sleeping?'
'Let's go a bit closer and have a look,' Sophie whispered.

The BFG glided forward among the trees. Suddenly he stopped dead. The great ear 
in which Sophie was
sitting began to swivel round. 'Hey!' Sophie whispered. 'You're going to tip me 
out!'

'Ssshh!' the BFG whispered back. 'I is hearing something!' He stopped behind a 
clump of bushes. He
waited. The ear was still swinging this way and that. Sophie had to hang on 
tight to the side of it to save
herself from tumbling out. The BFG pointed through a gap in the bushes, and 
there, not more than fifty
yards away, she saw a man padding softly across the lawn. He had a guard-dog 
with him on a leash.

The BFG stayed as still as a stone. So did Sophie. The man and the dog walked 
on and disappeared into
the darkness.

'You was telling me they has no soldiers in the back garden,' the BFG 
whispered.

'He wasn't a soldier,' Sophie whispered. 'He was some sort of a watchman. We'll 
have to be careful.'

'I is not too worried,' the BFG said. 'These wacksey big ears of mine is 
picking up even the noise of a man

breathing the other side of this garden.'

'How much longer before it begins to get light?' Sophie whispered.
'Very short,' the BFG said. 'We must go pell-mell for leather now!'

He glided forward through the vast garden, and once again Sophie noticed how he 
seemed to melt into
the shadows wherever he went. His feet made no sound at all, even when he was 
walking on gravel.

Suddenly, they were right up close against the back wall of the great Palace. 
The BFG's head was level
with the upper windows one flight up, and Sophie, sitting in his ear, had the 
same view. In all the
windows on that floor the curtains seemed to be drawn. There were no lights 
showing anywhere. In the
distance they could hear the muted sound of traffic going round Hyde Park 
Corner.


The BFG stopped and put his other ear, the one Sophie wasn't sitting in, close 
to the first window.
'No,' he whispered.

'What are you listening for?' Sophie whispered back.

'For breathing,' the BFG whispered. 'I is able to tell if it is a man human 
bean or a lady by the breathing-
voice. We has a man in there. Snortling a little bit, too.'

He glided on, flattening his tall, thin, black-cloaked body against the side of 
the building. He came to the
next window. He listened.

'No,' he whispered.
He moved on.

'This room is empty,' he whispered.

He listened in at several more windows, but at each one he shook his head and 
moved on.

When he came to the window in the very centre of the Palace, he listened but 
did not move on. 'Ho-ho,'
he whispered. 'We has a lady sleeping in there.'

Sophie felt a little quiver go running down her spine. 'But who?' she whispered 
back.

The BFG put a finger to his lips for silence. He reached up through the open 
window and parted the
curtains ever so slightly.

The orange glow from the night-sky over London crept into the room and cast a 
glimmer of light on to its
walls. It was a large room. A lovely room. A rich carpet. Gilded chairs. A 
dressing-table. A bed. And on
the pillow of the bed lay the head of a sleeping woman.

Sophie suddenly found herself looking at a face she had seen on stamps and 
coins and in the
newspapers all her life.

For a few seconds she was speechless.
'Is that her?' the BFG whispered.

'Yes,' Sophie whispered back.

The BFG wasted no time. First, and very carefully, he started to raise the 
lower half of the large window.
The BFG was an expert on windows. He had opened thousands of them over the 
years to blow his
dreams into children's bedrooms. Some windows got stuck. Some were wobbly. Some 
creaked. He was
pleased to find that the Queen's window slid upward like silk. He pushed up the 
lower half as far as it
would  go so as to leave a place on the sill for Sophie to sit.

Next, he closed the crack in the curtains.


Then, with finger and thumb, he lifted Sophie out of his ear and placed her on 
the window-ledge with
her legs dangling just inside the room, but behind the curtains.

'Now don't you go tip-toppling backwards,' the BFG whispered. 'You must always 
be holding on tight
with both hands to the inside of the window-sill.'

Sophie did as he said.

It was summertime in London and the night was not cold, but don't forget that 
Sophie was wearing only
her thin nightie. She would have given anything for a dressing-gown, not just 
to keep her warm but to
hide the whiteness of her nightie from watchful eyes in the garden below.

The BFG was taking the glass jar from the pocket of his cloak. He unscrewed the 
lid. Now, very
cautiously, he poured the precious dream into the wide end of his trumpet. He 
steered the trumpet
through the curtains, far into the room, aiming it at the place where he knew 
the bed to be. He took a
deep breath. He puffed out his cheeks and pooff, he blew.

Now he was withdrawing the trumpet, sliding it out very very carefully, like a 
thermometer.

'Is you all right sitting there?' he whispered.

'Yes,' Sophie murmured. She was quite terrified, but determined not to show it. 
She looked down over
her shoulder. The ground seemed miles away. It was a nasty drop.

'How long will the dream take to work?' Sophie whispered.


'Some takes an hour,' the BFG whispered back. 'Some is quicker. Some is slower 
still. But it is sure to find
her in the end.'

Sophie said nothing.

'I is going off to wait in the garden,' the BFG whispered. 'When you is wanting 
me, just call out my name
and I is coming very quick.'

'Will you hear me?' Sophie whispered.

'You is forgetting these,' the BFG whispered, smiling and pointing to his great 
ears.
'Goodbye,' Sophie whispered.

Suddenly, unexpectedly, the BFG leaned forward and kissed her gently on the 
cheek. Sophie felt like
crying.

When she turned to look at him, he was already gone. He had simply melted away 
into the dark garden.


The Queen

Dawn came at last, and the rim of a lemon-coloured sun rose up behind the 
roof-tops somewhere
behind Victoria Station.

A while later, Sophie felt a little of its warmth on her back and was grateful.

In the distance, she heard a church clock striking. She counted the strikes. 
There were seven.

She found it almost impossible to believe that she, Sophie, a little orphan of 
no real importance in the
world, was at this moment actually sitting high above the ground on the 
window-sill of the Queen of
England's bedroom, with the Queen herself asleep in there behind the curtain 
not more than five yards
away.

The very idea of it was absurd.

No one had ever done such a thing before.
It was a terrifying thing to be doing.

What would happen if the dream didn't work?

No one, least of all the Queen, would believe a word of her story.

It seemed possible that nobody had ever woken up to find a small child sitting 
behind the curtains on his
or her window-sill.

The Queen was bound to get a shock.
Who wouldn't?

With all the patience of a small girl who has something important to wait for, 
Sophie sat motionless on
the window-sill.

How much longer? she wondered.
What time do Queens wake up?

Faint stirrings and distant sounds came to her from deep inside the belly of 
the Palace.

Then, all at once, beyond the curtains, she heard the voice of the sleeper in 
the bedroom. It was a
slightly blurred sleep-talker's voice. 'Oh no!' it cried out. 'No! Don't — 
Someone stop them! — Don't let
them do it! — I can't bear it! — Oh please stop them! — It's horrible! — Oh, 
it's ghastly! — No! No! No!

...'

She is having the dream, Sophie told herself. It must be really horrid. I feel 
so sorry for her. But it has to
be done.


After that, there were a few moans. Then there was a long silence.

Sophie waited. She looked over her shoulder. She was terrified that she would 
see the man with the dog
down in the garden staring up at her. But the garden was deserted. A pale 
summer mist hung over it like
smoke. It was an enormous garden, very beautiful, with a large funny-shaped 
lake at the far end. There
was  an island in the lake and there were ducks swimming on the water.

Inside the room, beyond the curtains, Sophie suddenly heard what was obviously 
a knock on the door.
She heard the doorknob being turned. She heard someone entering the room.

'Good morning, Your Majesty,' a woman was saying. It was the voice of an oldish 
person.
There was a pause and then a slight rattle of china and silver.

'Will you have your tray on the bed, ma'am, or on the table?'

'Oh Mary! Something awful has just happened!' This was a voice Sophie had heard 
many times on radio
and television, especially on Christmas Day. It was a very well-known voice.

'Whatever is it, ma'am?'

'I've just had the most frightful dream! It was a nightmare! It was awful!'

'Oh, I am sorry, ma'am. But don't be distressed. You're awake now and it will 
go away. It was only a
dream, ma'am.'

'Do you know what I dreamt, Mary? I dreamt that girls and boys were being 
snatched out of their beds
at boarding-school and were being eaten by the most ghastly giants! The giants 
were putting their arms
in through the dormitory windows and plucking the children out with their 
fingers! One lot from a girls'
school and another from a boys' school! It was all so ... so vivid, Mary! It 
was so real!'

There was a silence. Sophie waited. She was quivering with excitement. But why 
the silence? Why didn't
the other one, the maid, why didn't she say something?

'What on earth's the matter, Mary?' the famous voice was saying.
There was another silence.

'Mary! You've gone as white as a sheet! Are you feeling ill?'

There was suddenly a crash and a clatter of crockery which could only have 
meant that the tray the maid
was carrying had fallen out of her hands.

'Mary!' the famous voice was saying rather sharply. 'I think you'd better sit 
down at once! You look as
though you're going to faint! You really mustn't take it so hard just because 
I've had an awful dream.'

'That ... that ... that isn't the reason, ma'am.' The maid's voice was 
quivering terribly.


'Then for heaven's sake what is the reason?'
'I'm very sorry about the tray, ma'am.'

'Oh, don't worry about the tray. But what on earth was it that made you drop 
it? Why did you go white
as a ghost all of a sudden?'

'You haven't seen the papers yet, have you, ma'am?'
'No, what do they say?'

Sophie heard the rustling of a newspaper as it was being handed over.
'It's like the very dream you had in the night, ma'am.'

'Rubbish, Mary. Where is it?'

'On the front page, ma'am. It's the big headlines.'

'Great Scott!' cried the famous voice. 'Eighteen girls vanish mysteriously from 
their beds at Roedean
School! Fourteen boys disappear from Eton! Bones are found underneath dormitory 
windows!'

Then there was a pause punctuated by gasps from the famous voice as the 
newspaper article was clearly
being read and digested.

'Oh, how ghastly!' the famous voice cried out. 'It's absolutely frightful! 
Bones under the windows! What

can have happened? Oh, those poor children!'
'But ma'am ... don't you see, ma'am ...'

'See what, Mary?'

'Those children were taken away almost exactly as you dreamt it, ma'am!'
'Not by giants, Mary.'

'No, ma'am. But the bit about the girls and boys disappearing from their 
dormitories, you dreamt it so
clearly and then it actually happened. That's why I came over all queer, 
ma'am.'

'I'm coming over a bit queer myself, Mary.'

'It gives me the shakes, ma'am, when something like that happens, it really 
does.'
'I don't blame you, Mary.'

'I shall get you some more breakfast, ma'am, and have this mess cleared up.'
'No! Don't go, Mary! Stay here a moment!'


Sophie wished she could see into the room, but she didn't dare touch the 
curtains. The famous voice
began speaking again. 'I really did dream about those children, Mary. It was 
clear as crystal.'

'I know you did, ma'am.'

'I don't know how giants got into it. That was rubbish.'

'Shall I draw the curtains, ma'am, then we shall all feel better. It's a lovely 
day.'
'Please do.'

With a swish, the great curtains were pulled aside.
The maid screamed.

Sophie froze to the window-ledge.

The Queen, sitting up in her bed with The Times on her lap, glanced up sharply. 
Now it was her turn to
freeze. She didn't scream as the maid had done. Queens are too self-controlled 
for that. She simply sat
there staring wide-eyed and white-faced at the small girl who was perched on 
her window-sill in a
nightie.

Sophie was petrified.


Curiously enough, the Queen looked petrified, too. One would have expected her 
to look surprised, as
you or I would have done had we discovered a small girl sitting on our 
window-sill first thing in the
morning. But the Queen didn't look surprised. She looked genuinely frightened.

The maid, a middle-aged woman with a funny cap on the top of her head, was the 
first to recover. 'What
in the name of heaven do you think you're doing in here?' she shouted angrily 
to Sophie.

Sophie looked beseechingly towards the Queen for help.

The Queen was still staring at Sophie. Gaping at her would be more accurate. 
Her mouth was slightly
open, her eyes were round and wide as two saucers, and the whole of that famous 
rather lovely face
was filled with disbelief.

'Now listen here, young lady, how on earth did you get into this room?' the 
maid shouted furiously.
'I don't believe it,' the Queen was murmuring. 'I simply don't believe it.'

'I'll take her out, ma'am, at once,' the maid was saying,

'No, Mary! No, don't do that!' The Queen spoke so sharply that the maid was 
quite taken aback. She
turned and stared at the Queen. What on earth had come over her? It looked as 
though she was in a
state of shock.

'Are you all right, ma'am?' the maid was saying.

When the Queen spoke again, it was in a strange strangled sort of whisper. 
'Tell me, Mary,' she said, 'tell
me quite truthfully, is there really a little girl sitting on my window-sill, 
or am I still dreaming?'

'She is sitting there all right, ma'am, as clear as daylight, but heaven only 
knows how she got there! Your
Majesty is certainly not dreaming it this time!'


'But that's exactly what I diddream!' the Queen cried out. 'I dreamt that as 
well! I dreamt there would
be a little girl sitting on my window-sill in her nightie and she would talk to 
me!'

The maid, with her hands clasped across her starched white bosom, was staring 
at her mistress with a
look of absolute disbelief on her face. The situation was getting beyond her. 
She was lost. She had not
been trained to cope with this kind of madness.

'Are you real?' the Queen said to Sophie.
'Y-y-yes, Your Majesty,' Sophie murmured.
'What is your name?'

'Sophie, Your Majesty.'

'And how did you get up on to my window-sill? No, don't answer that! Hang on a 
moment! I dreamed
that part of it, too! I dreamed that a giant put you there!'

'He did, Your Majesty,' Sophie said.

The maid gave a howl of anguish and clasped her hands over her face.

'Control yourself, Mary,' the Queen said sharply. Then to Sophie she said, 'You 
are not serious about the
giant, are you?'

'Oh yes, Your Majesty. He's out there in the garden now.'

'Is he indeed,' the Queen said. The sheer absurdity of it all was helping her 
to regain her composure. 'So
he's in the garden, is he?' she said, smiling a little.

'He is a good giant, Your Majesty,' Sophie said. 'You need not be frightened of 
him.'
'I'm delighted to hear it,' said the Queen, still smiling.

'He is my best friend, Your Majesty.'


'How nice,' the Queen said.

'He's a lovely giant, Your Majesty.'

'I'm quite sure he is,' the Queen said. 'But why have you and this giant come 
to see me?'
'I think you have dreamed that part of it, too, Your Majesty,' Sophie said 
calmly.

That pulled the Queen up short.

It took the smile right off her face.

She certainly had dreamed that part of it. She was remembering now how, at the 
end of her dream, it
had said that a little girl and a big friendly giant would come and show her 
how to find the nine horrible
man-eating giants.

But be careful, the Queen told herself. Keep very calm. Because this is surely 
not very far from the place
where madness begins.

'You did dream that, didn't you, Your Majesty?' Sophie said.
The maid was out of it now. She just stood there goggling.

'Yes,' the Queen murmured. 'Yes, now you come to mention it, I did. But how do 
you know what I
dreamed?'

'Oh, that's a long story, Your Majesty,' Sophie said. 'Would you like me to 
call the Big Friendly Giant?'

The Queen looked at the child. The child looked straight back at the Queen, her 
face open and quite
serious. The Queen simply didn't know what to make of it. Was someone pulling 
her leg, she wondered.

'Shall I call him for you?' Sophie went on. 'You'll like him very much.'

The Queen took a deep breath. She was glad no one except her faithful old Mary 
was here to see what
was going on. 'Very well,' she said. 'You may call your giant. No, wait a 
moment. Mary, pull yourself
together and give me my dressing-gown and slippers.'

The maid did as she was told. The Queen got out of bed and put on a pale pink 
dressing-gown and
slippers.

'You may call him now,' the Queen said.

Sophie turned her head towards the garden and called out, 'BFG! Her Majesty The 
Queen would like to
see you!'

The Queen crossed over to the window and stood beside Sophie.

'Come down off that ledge,' she said. 'You're going to fall backwards any 
moment.'


Sophie jumped down into the room and stood beside the Queen at the open window. 
Mary, the maid,
stood behind them. Her hands were now planted firmly on her hips and there was 
a look on her face
which seemed to say, 'I want no part of this fiasco.'

'I don't see any giant,' the Queen said.
'Please wait,' Sophie said.

'Shall I take her away now, ma'am?' the maid said.

'Take her downstairs and give her some breakfast,' the Queen said.
Just then, there was a rustle in the bushes beside the lake.

Then out he came!


Twenty-four feet tall, wearing his black cloak with the grace of a nobleman, 
still carrying his long
trumpet in one hand, he strode magnificently across the Palace lawn towards the 
window.

The maid screamed.

The Queen gasped.

Sophie waved.

The BFG took his time. He was very dignified in his approach. When he was close 
to the window where
the three of them were standing, he stopped and made a slow graceful bow. His 
head, after he had
straightened up again, was almost exactly level with the watchers at the 
window.

'Your Majester,' he said. 'I is your humbug servant.' He bowed again.

Considering she was meeting a giant for the first time in her life, the Queen 
remained astonishingly self-
composed. 'We are very pleased to meet you,' she said.

Down below, a gardener was coming across the lawn with a wheelbarrow. He caught 
sight of the BFG's
legs over to his left. His gaze travelled slowly upwards along the entire 
height of the enormous body. He
gripped the handles of the wheelbarrow. He swayed. He tottered. Then he keeled 
over on the grass in a
dead faint. Nobody noticed him.

'Oh, Majester!' cried the BFG. 'Oh, Queen! Oh Monacher! Oh, Golden Sovereign! 
Oh, Ruler! Oh, Ruler of
Straight Lines! Oh, Sultana! I is come here with my little friend Sophie ... to 
give you a ...' The BFG
hesitated, searching for the word.

'To give me what?' the Queen said.
'A sistance,' the BFG said, beaming.
The Queen looked puzzled.

'He sometimes speaks a bit funny, Your Majesty,' Sophie said. 'He never went to 
school.'

'Then we must send him to school,' the Queen said. 'We have some very good 
schools in this country.'
'I has great secrets to tell Your Majester,' the BFG said.

'I should be delighted to hear them,' the Queen said. 'But not in my 
dressing-gown.'


'Shall you wish to get dressed, ma'am?' the maid said.
'Have either of you had breakfast?' the Queen said.

'Oh, could we?' Sophie cried. 'Oh, please! I haven't eaten a thing since 
yesterday!'
'I was about to have mine,' the Queen said, 'but Mary dropped it.'

The maid gulped.

'I imagine we have more food in the Palace,' the Queen said, speaking to the 
BFG. 'Perhaps you and your
little friend would care to join me.'

'Will it be repulsant snozzcumbers, Majester?' the BFG asked.
'Will it be what?' the Queen said.

'Stinky snozzcumbers,' the BFG said.

'What is he talking about?' the Queen said. 'It sounds like a rude word to me.' 
She turned to the maid
and said, 'Mary, ask them to serve breakfast for three in the ... I think it 
had better be in the Ballroom.
That has the highest ceiling.' To the BFG, she said, 'I'm afraid you will have 
to go through the door on
your hands and knees. I shall send someone to show you the way.'

The BFG reached up and lifted Sophie out of the window. 'You and I is leaving 
Her Majester alone to get
dressed,' he said.


'No, leave the little girl here with me,' the Queen said. 'We'll have to find 
something for her to put on.
She can't have breakfast in her nightie.'

The BFG returned Sophie to the bedroom.

'Can we have sausages, Your Majesty?' Sophie said. 'And bacon and fried eggs?'
'I think that might be managed,' the Queen answered, smiling.

'Just you wait till you taste it!' Sophie said to the BFG. 'No more 
snozzcumbers from now on!'


The Royal Breakfast

There was a frantic scurry among the Palace servants when orders were received 
from the Queen that a
twenty-four-foot giant must be seated with Her Majesty in the Great Ballroom 
within the next half-hour.

The butler, an imposing personage named Mr Tibbs, was in supreme command of all 
the palace servants
and he did the best he could in the short time available. A man does not rise 
to become the Queen's
butler unless he is gifted with extraordinary ingenuity, adaptability, 
versatility, dexterity, cunning,
sophistication, sagacity, discretion and a host of other talents that neither 
you nor I possess. Mr Tibbs
had              them all. He was in the butler's pantry sipping an early 
morning glass of light ale when the order
reached him. In a split second he had made the following calculations in his 
head: if a normal six-foot
man requires a three-foot-high table to eat off, a twenty-four-foot giant will 
require a twelve-foot-high
table.

And if a six foot man requires a chair with a two-foot-high seat, a 
twenty-four-foot giant will require a
chair with an eight-foot-high seat.

Everything, Mr Tibbs told himself, must be multiplied by four. Two breakfast 
eggs must become eight.
Four rashers of bacon must become sixteen. Three pieces of toast must become 
twelve, and so on.

These calculations about food were immediately passed on to Monsieur Papillion, 
the royal chef.

Mr Tibbs skimmed into the ballroom (butlers don't walk, they skim over the 
ground) followed by a
whole army of footmen. The footmen all wore knee-breeches and every one of them 
displayed
beautifully rounded calves and ankles. There is no way you can become a royal 
footman unless you have
a well-turned ankle. It is the first thing they look at when you are 
interviewed.

'Push the grand piano into the centre of the room,' Mr Tibbs whispered. Butlers 
never raise their voices
above the softest whisper.

Four footmen moved the piano.

'Now fetch a large chest-of-drawers and put it on top of the piano,' Mr Tibbs 
whispered.

Three other footmen fetched a very fine Chippendale mahogany chest-of-drawers 
and placed it on top
of the piano.

'That will be his chair,' Mr Tibbs whispered. 'It is exactly eight feet off the 
ground. Now we shall make a
table upon which this gentleman may eat his breakfast in comfort. Fetch me four 
very tall grandfather
clocks. There are plenty of them around the Palace. Let each clock be twelve 
feet high.'

Sixteen footmen spread out around the Palace to find the clocks. They were not 
easy to carry and
required four footmen to each one.

'Place the four clocks in a rectangle eight feet by four alongside the grand 
piano,' Mr Tibbs whispered.
The footmen did so.


'Now fetch me the young Prince's ping-pong table,' Mr Tibbs whispered.

The ping-pong table was carried in.

'Unscrew its legs and take them away,' Mr Tibbs whispered. This was done.

'Now place the ping-pong table on top of the four grandfather clocks,' Mr Tibbs 
whispered. To manage
this, the footmen had to stand on stepladders.

Mr Tibbs stood back to survey the new furniture. 'None of it is in the classic 
style,' he whispered, 'but it
will have to do.' He gave orders that a damask table-cloth should be draped 
over the ping-pong table,
and in the end it looked really quite elegant after all.

At this point, Mr Tibbs was seen to hesitate. The footmen all stared at him, 
aghast. Butlers never
hesitate, not even when they are faced with the most impossible problems. It is 
their job to be totally
decisive at all times.

'Knives and forks and spoons,' Mr Tibbs was heard to mutter. 'Our cutlery will 
be like little pins in his
hands.'

But Mr Tibbs didn't hesitate for long. 'Tell the head gardener,' he whispered, 
'that I require immediately
a brand new unused garden fork and also a spade. And for a knife we shall use 
the great sword hanging
on the wall in the morning-room. But clean the sword well first. It was last 
used to cut off the head of
King Charles the First and there may still be a little dried blood on the 
blade.'

When all this had been accomplished, Mr Tibbs stood near the centre of the 
Ballroom casting his expert
butler's eye over the scene. Had he forgotten anything? He certainly had. What 
about a coffee cup for
the large gentleman?

'Fetch me,' he whispered, 'the biggest jug you can find in the kitchen.'


A splendid one gallon porcelain water-jug was brought in and placed on the 
giant's table beside the
garden fork and the garden spade and the great sword.

So much for the giant.

Mr Tibbs then had the footmen move a small delicate table and two chairs 
alongside the giant's table.
This was for the Queen and for Sophie. The fact that the giant's table and 
chair towered far above the
smaller table simply could not be helped.

All these arrangements were only just completed when the Queen, now fully 
dressed in a trim skirt and
cashmere cardigan, entered the Ballroom holding Sophie by the hand. A pretty 
blue dress that had once
belonged to one of the Princesses had been found for Sophie, and to make her 
look prettier still, the


Queen had picked up a superb sapphire brooch from her dressing-table and had 
pinned it on the left
side of Sophie's chest. The Big Friendly Giant followed behind them, but he had 
an awful job getting
through the door. He had to squeeze himself through on his hands and knees, 
with two footmen
pushing him from behind and two pulling from the front. But he got through in 
the end. He had
removed his black cloak and got rid of his trumpet, and was now wearing his 
ordinary simple clothes.

As he walked across the Ballroom he had to stoop quite a lot to avoid hitting 
the ceiling. Because of this
he failed to notice an enormous crystal chandelier. Crash went his head right 
into the chandelier. A
shower of glass fell upon the poor BFG. 'Gunghummers and bogswinkles!' he 
cried. 'What was that?'

'It was Louis the Fifteenth,' the Queen said, looking slightly put out.
'He's never been in a house before,' Sophie said.

Mr Tibbs scowled. He directed four footmen to clear up the mess, then, with a 
disdainful little wave of
the hand, he indicated to the giant that he should seat himself on top of the 
chest-of-drawers on top of
the grand piano.

'What a phizz-whizzing flushbunking seat!' cried the BFG. 'I is going to be bug 
as a snug in a rug up here.'
'Does he always speak like that?' the Queen asked.

'Quite often,' Sophie said. 'He gets tangled up with his words.'

The BFG sat down on the chest-of-drawers-piano and gazed in wonder around the 
Great Ballroom. 'By
gum-drops!' he cried. 'What a spliffling whoppsy room we is in! It is so 
gigantuous I is needing bicirculers
and telescoops to see what is going on at the other end!'

Footmen arrived carrying silver trays with fried eggs, bacon, sausages and 
fried potatoes.

At this point, Mr Tibbs suddenly realized that in order to serve the BFG at his 
twelve-foot-high-
grandfather-clock table, he would have to climb to the top of one of the tall 
step-ladders. What's more,
he                 must do it balancing a huge warm plate on the palm of one 
hand and holding a gigantic silver coffee-


pot in the other. A normal man would have flinched at the thought of it. But 
good butlers never flinch.
Up he went, up and up and up, while the Queen and Sophie watched him with great 
interest. It is
possible they were both secretly hoping he would lose his balance and go 
crashing to the floor. But good
butlers never crash.

At the top of the ladder, Mr Tibbs, balancing like an acrobat, poured the BFG's 
coffee and placed the
enormous plate before him. On the plate there were eight eggs, twelve sausages, 
sixteen rashers of
bacon and a heap of fried potatoes.

'What is this please, Your Majester?' the BFG asked, peering down at the Queen.

'He has never eaten anything except snozzcumbers before in his life,' Sophie 
explained. 'They taste
revolting.'

'They don't seem to have stunted his growth,' the Queen said.


The BFG grabbed the garden spade and scooped up all the eggs, sausages, bacon 
and potatoes in one go
and shovelled them into his enormous mouth.

'By goggles!' he cried. 'This stuff is making snozzcumbers taste like 
swatchwallop!'

The Queen glanced up, frowning. Mr Tibbs looked down at his toes and his lips 
moved in silent prayer.

'That was only one titchy little bite,' the BFG said. 'Is you having any more 
of this delunctious grubble in
your cupboard, Majester?'

'Tibbs,' the Queen said, showing true regal hospitality, 'fetch the gentleman 
another dozen fried eggs
and a dozen sausages.'

Mr Tibbs swam out of the room muttering unspeakable words to himself and wiping 
his brow with a
white handkerchief.

The BFG lifted the huge jug and took a swallow. 'Owch!' he cried, blowing a 
mouthful across the
ballroom. 'Please, what is this horrible swigpill I is drinking, Majester?'

'It's coffee,' the Queen told him. 'Freshly roasted.'

'It's filthsome!' the BFG cried out. 'Where is the frobscottle?'
'The what?' the Queen asked.

'Delumptious fizzy frobscottle,' the BFG answered. 'Everyone must be drinking 
frobscottle with
breakfast, Majester. Then we can all be whizzpopping happily together 
afterwards.'

'What does he mean?' the Queen said, frowning at Sophie. 'What is 
whizzpopping?'

Sophie kept a very straight face. 'BFG,' she said, 'there is no frobscottle 
here and whizzpopping is strictly
forbidden!'

'What!' cried the BFG. 'No frobscottle? No whizzpopping? No glumptious music? 
No boom-boom-
boom?'

'Absolutely not,' Sophie told him firmly.

'If he wants to sing, please don't stop him,' the Queen said.
'He doesn't want to sing,' Sophie said.

'He said he wants to make music,' the Queen went on. 'Shall I send for a 
violin?'
'No, Your Majesty,' Sophie said. 'He's only joking.'


A sly little smile crossed the BFG's face. 'Listen,' he said, peering down at 
Sophie, 'if they isn't having any
frobscottle here in the Palace, I can still go whizzpopping perfectly well 
without it if I is trying hard
enough.'

'No!' cried Sophie. 'Don't! You're not to! I beg you!'

'Music is very good for the digestion,' the Queen said. 'When I'm up in 
Scotland, they play the bagpipes
outside the window while I'm eating. Do play something.'

'I has Her Majester's permission!' cried the BFG, and all at once he let fly 
with a whizzpopper that
sounded as though a bomb had exploded in the room.

The Queen jumped.

'Whoopee!' shouted the BFG. 'That is better than bagglepipes, is it not, 
Majester?'

It took the Queen a few seconds to get over the shock. 'I prefer the bagpipes,' 
she said. But she couldn't
stop herself smiling.

During the next twenty minutes, a whole relay of footmen were kept busy 
hurrying to and from the
kitchen carrying third helpings and fourth helpings and fifth helpings of fried 
eggs and sausages for the
ravenous and delighted BFG.

When the BFG had consumed his seventy-second fried egg, Mr Tibbs sidled up to 
the Queen. He bent
low from the waist and whispered in her ear, 'Chef sends his apologies, Your 
Majesty, and he says he has
no more eggs in the kitchen.'

'What's wrong with the hens?' the Queen said.

'Nothing's wrong with the hens, Your Majesty,' Mr Tibbs whispered.

'Then tell them to lay more,' the Queen said. She looked up at the BFG. 'Have 
some toast and
marmalade while you're waiting,' she said to him.

'The toast is finished,' Mr Tibbs whispered, 'and chef says there is no more 
bread.'
'Tell him to bake more,' the Queen said.

While all this was going on, Sophie had been telling the Queen everything, 
absolutely everything about
her visit to Giant Country. The Queen listened, appalled. When Sophie had 
finished, the Queen looked
up at the BFG who was sitting high above her. He was now eating a sponge-cake.

'Big Friendly Giant,' she said, 'last night those man-eating brutes came to 
England. Can you remember
where they went the night before?'


The BFG put a whole round sponge-cake into his mouth and chewed it slowly while 
he thought about
this question. 'Yes, Majester,' he said. 'I do think I is remembering where 
they said they was going the
night before last. They was galloping off to Sweden for the Sweden sour taste.'

'Fetch me a telephone,' the Queen commanded.

Mr Tibbs placed the instrument on the table. The Queen lifted the receiver. 
'Get me the King of
Sweden,' she said.

'Good morning,' the Queen said. 'Is everything all right in Sweden?'

'Everything is terrible!' the King of Sweden answered. 'There is panic in the 
capital! Two nights ago,
twenty-six of my loyal subjects disappeared! My whole country is in a panic!'

'Your twenty-six loyal subjects were all eaten by giants,' the Queen said. 
'Apparently they like the taste
of Swedes.'

'Why do they like the taste of Swedes?' the King asked.

'Because the Swedes of Sweden have a sweet and sour taste. So says the BFG,' 
the Queen said.

'I don't know what you're talking about,' the King said, growing testy. 'It's 
hardly a joking matter when
one's loyal subjects are being eaten like popcorn.'

'They've eaten mine as well,' the Queen said.
'Who's they, for heaven's sake?' the King asked.
'Giants,' the Queen said.

'Look here,' the King said, 'are you feeling all right?'

'It's been a rough morning,' the Queen said. 'First I had a horrid nightmare, 
then the maid dropped my
breakfast and now I've got a giant on the piano.'

'You need a doctor quick!' cried the King.

'I'll be all right,' the Queen said. 'I must go now. Thanks for your help.' She 
replaced the receiver.
'Your BFG is right,' the Queen said to Sophie. 'Those nine man-eating brutes 
did go to Sweden.'
'It's horrible,' Sophie said. 'Please stop them, Your Majesty.'

'I'd like to make one more check before I call out the troops,' the Queen said. 
Once more, she looked up
at the BFG. He was eating doughnuts now, popping them into his mouth ten at a 
time, like peas. 'Think
hard, BFG,' she said. 'Where did those horrid giants say they were galloping 
off to three nights ago?'

The BFG thought long and hard.


'Ho-ho!' he cried at last. 'Yes, I is remembering!'
'Where?' asked the Queen.

'One was off to Baghdad,' the BFG said. 'As they is galloping past my cave, 
Fleshlumpeater is waving his
arms and shouting at me, "I is off to Baghdad and I is going to Baghdad and mum 
and every one of their
ten children as well!"'

Once more, the Queen lifted the receiver. 'Get me the Lord Mayor of Baghdad,' 
she said. 'If they don't
have a Lord Mayor, get me the next best thing.'

In five seconds, a voice was on the line. 'Here is the Sultan of Baghdad 
speaking,' the voice said.
'Listen, Sultan,' the Queen said. 'Did anything unpleasant happen in your city 
three nights ago?'

'Every night unpleasant things are happening in Baghdad,' the Sultan said. 'We 
are chopping off people's
heads like you are chopping parsley.'

'I've never chopped parsley in my life,' the Queen said. 'I want to know if 
anyone has disappeared

recently in Baghdad?'

'Only my uncle, Caliph Haroun al Rashid,' the Sultan said. 'He disappeared from 
his bed three nights ago
together with his wife and ten children.'

'There you is!' cried the BFG, whose wonderful ears enabled him to hear what 
the Sultan was saying to
the Queen on the telephone. 'Fleshlumpeater did that one! He went off to 
Baghdad to bag dad and
mum and all the little kiddles!'

The Queen replaced the receiver. 'That proves it,' she said, looking up at the 
BFG. 'Your story is
apparently quite true. Summon the Head of the Army and the Head of the Air 
Force immediately!'


The Plan

The Head of the Army and the Head of the Air Force stood at attention beside 
the Queen's breakfast
table. Sophie was still in her seat and the BFG was still high up on his crazy 
perch.

It took the Queen only five minutes to explain the situation to the military 
men.

'I knew there was something like this going on, Your Majesty,' the Head of the 
Army said. 'For the last
ten years we have been getting reports from nearly every country in the world 
about people
disappearing mysteriously in the night. We had one only the other day from 
Panama ...'

'For the hatty taste!' cried the BFG.

'And one from Wellington, in New Zealand,' said the Head of the Army.
'For the booty flavour!' cried the BFG.

'What is he talking about?' said the Head of the Air Force.

'Work it out for yourself,' the Queen said. 'What time is it? Ten a.m. In eight 
hours those nine blood-
thirsty brutes will be galloping off to gobble up another couple of dozen 
unfortunate wretches. They
have to be stopped. We must act fast.'

'We'll bomb the blighters!' shouted the Head of the Air Force.

'We'll mow them down with machine-guns!' cried the Head of the Army.
'I do not approve of murder,' the Queen said.

'But they are murderers themselves!' cried the Head of the Army.

'That is no reason why we should follow their example,' the Queen said. 'Two 
wrongs don't make a
right.'

'And two rights don't make a left!' cried the BFG.
'We must bring them back alive,' the Queen said.

'How?' the two military men said together. 'They are all fifty feet high. 
They'd knock us down like
ninepins!'

'Wait!' cried the BFG. 'Hold your horseflies! Keep your skirts on! I think I 
has the answer to the maiden's
hair!'

'Let him speak,' the Queen said.

'Every afternoon,' the BFG said, 'all these giants is in the Land of Noddy.'


'I can't understand a word this feller says,' the Head of the Army snapped. 
'Why doesn't he speak
clearly?'

'He means the Land of Nod,' Sophie said. 'It's pretty obvious.'

'Exunckly!' cried the BFG. 'Every afternoon all these nine giants is lying on 
the ground snoozling away in
a very deep sleep. They is always resting like that before they is galloping 
off to guzzle another helping
of human beans.'

'Go on,' they said. 'So what?'

'So what you soldiers has to do is to creep up to the giants while they is 
still in the Land of Noddy and tie
their arms and legs with mighty ropes and whunking chains.'

'Brilliant,' the Queen said.

'That's all very well,' said the Head of the Army. 'But how do we get the 
brutes back here? We can't load
fifty-foot giants on to trucks! Shoot 'em on the spot, that's what I say!'

The BFG looked down from his lofty perch and said, this time to the Head of the 
Air Force, 'You is having
bellypoppers, is you not?'

'Is he being rude?' the Head of the Air Force said.
'He means helicopters,' Sophie told him.

'Then why doesn't he say so? Of course we have helicopters.'
'Whoppsy big bellypoppers?' asked the BFG.

'Very big ones,' the Head of the Air Force said proudly. 'But no helicopter is 
big enough to get a giant like
that inside it.'

'You do not put him inside,' the BFG said. 'You sling him underneath the belly 
of your bellypopper and
carry him like a porteedo.'


'Like a what?' said the Head of the Air Force.
'Like a torpedo,' Sophie said.

'Could you do that, Air Marshal?' the Queen asked.

'Well, I suppose we could,' the Head of the Air Force admitted grudgingly.

'Then get cracking!' the Queen said, 'You'll need nine helicopters, one for 
each Giant.'

'Where is this place?' the Air Force man said to the BFG. 'I presume you can 
pinpoint it on the map?'

'Pinpoint?' said the BFG. 'Map? I is never hearing these words before. Is this 
Air Force bean talking
slushbungle?'

The Air Marshal's face turned the colour of a ripe plum. He was not used to 
being told he was talking
slushbungle. The Queen, with her usual admirable tact and good sense, came to 
the rescue. 'BFG,' she
said, 'can you tell us more or less where this Giant Country is?'

'No, Majester,' the BFG said. 'Not on my nelly.'
'Then we're jiggered!' cried the Army General.
'This is ridiculous!' cried the Air Marshal.

'You must not be giving up so easy,' the BFG said calmly. 'The first titchy 
bobsticle you meet and you
begin shouting you is biffsquiggled.'


The Army General was no more used to being insulted than the Air Marshal. His 
face began to swell with
fury and his cheeks blew out until they looked like two huge ripe tomatoes. 
'Your Majesty!' he cried. 'We
are dealing with a lunatic! I want nothing more to do with this ridiculous 
operation!'

The Queen, who was used to the tantrums of her senior officials, ignored him 
completely. 'BFG,' she
said, 'Would you please tell these rather dim-witted characters exactly what to 
do.'

'A pleasure, Majester,' said the BFG. 'Now listen to me carefully, you two 
bootbogglers.'
The military men began to twitch, but they stayed put.

'I is not having the foggiest idea where Giant Country is in the world,' the 
BFG said, 'but I is always able
to gallop there. I is galloping forthwards and backwards from Giant Country 
every night to blow my
dreams into little chiddler's bedrooms. I is knowing the way very well. So all 
you is having to do is this.
Put your nine big bellyhoppers up in the air and let them follow me as I is 
galloping along.'

'How long will the journey take?' the Queen asked.

'If we is leaving now,' the BFG said, 'we will be arriving just as the giants 
is having their afternoon
snozzle.'

'Splendid,' said the Queen. Then turning to the two military men, she said, 
'Prepare to leave
immediately.'

The Head of the Army, who was feeling pretty miffed by the whole business, 
said, 'That's all very well,
Your Majesty, but what are we going to do with the blighters once we've got 
them back?'

'Don't you worry about that,' the Queen told him. 'We'll be ready for them. 
Hurry up, now! Off you go!'
'If it pleases Your Majesty,' Sophie said, 'I should like to ride with the BFG, 
to keep him company.'
'Where will you sit?' asked the Queen.

'In his ear,' Sophie said. 'Show them, BFG.'

The BFG got down from his high chair. He picked Sophie up in his fingers. He 
swivelled his huge right ear
until it was parallel with the ground, then he placed Sophie gently inside it.

The Heads of the Army and the Air Force stood there goggling. The Queen smiled. 
'You really are rather
a wonderful giant,' she said.

'Majester,' the BFG said, 'I is wishing to ask a very special thing from you.'
'What is it?' the Queen said.

'Could I please bring back here in the bellypoppers all my collection of 
dreams? They is taking me years
and years to collect and I is not wanting to lose them.'


'Why of course,' the Queen said. 'I wish you a safe journey.'

The BFG had made thousands of journeys to and from Giant Country over the 
years, but he had never in
his life made one quite like this, with nine huge helicopters roaring along 
just over his head. He had
never before travelled in broad daylight either. He hadn't dared to. But this 
was different. Now he was
doing it for the Queen of England herself and he was frightened of nobody.

As he galloped across the British Isles with the helicopters thundering above 
him, people stood and
gaped and wondered what on earth was going on. They had never seen the likes of 
it before. And they
never would again.

Every now and then, the pilots of the helicopters would catch a glimpse of a 
small girl wearing glasses
crouching in the giant's right ear and waving to them. They always waved back. 
The pilots marvelled at
the giant's speed and at the way he leapt across wide rivers and over huge 
houses.

But they hadn't seen anything yet.

'Be careful to hang on tight!' the BFG said. 'We is going fast as a 
fizzlecrump!' The BFG changed into his
famous top gear and all at once he began to fly forward as though there were 
springs in his legs and
rockets in his toes. He went skimming over the earth like some magical 
hop-skip-and-jumper with his


feet hardly ever touching the ground. As usual, Sophie had to crouch low in the 
crevice of his ear to save
herself from being swept clean away.

The nine pilots in their helicopters suddenly realized they were being left 
behind. The giant was
streaking ahead. They opened their throttles to full speed, and even then they 
were only just able to
keep up.

In the leading machine, the Head of the Air Force was sitting beside the pilot. 
He had a world atlas on his
knees and he kept staring first at the atlas, then at the ground below, trying 
to figure out where they
were going. Frantically he turned the pages of the atlas. 'Where the devil are 
we going?' he cried.

'I haven't the foggiest idea,' the pilot answered. 'The Queen's orders were to 
follow the giant and that's
exactly what I'm doing.'

The pilot was a young Air Force officer with a bushy moustache. He was very 
proud of his moustache. He
was also quite fearless and he loved adventure. He thought this was a super 
adventure. 'It's fun going to
new places,' he said.


'New places!' shouted the Head of the Air Force. 'What the blazes d'you mean 
new places?'

'This place we're flying over now isn't in the atlas, is it?' the pilot said, 
grinning.

'You're darn right it isn't in the atlas!' cried the Head of the Air Force. 
'We've flown clear off the last
page!'

'I expect that old giant knows where he's going,' the young pilot said.

'He's leading us to disaster!' cried the Head of the Air Force. He was shaking 
with fear. In the seat behind
him sat the Head of the Army who was even more terrified.

'You don't mean to tell me we've gone right out of the atlas?' he cried, 
leaning forward to look.

'That's exactly what I am telling you!' cried the Air Force man. 'Look for 
yourself. Here's the very last
map in the whole flaming atlas! We went off that over an hour ago!' He turned 
the page. As in all
atlases, there were two completely blank pages at the very end. 'So now we must 
be somewhere here,'
he said, putting a finger on one of the blank pages.

'Where's here?' cried the Head of the Army.

The young pilot was still grinning broadly. He said to them, 'That's why they 
always put two blank pages
at the back of the atlas. They're for new countries. You're meant to fill them 
in yourself.'

The Head of the Air Force glanced down at the ground below. 'Just look at this 
godforsaken desert!' he
cried. 'All the trees are dead and all the rocks are blue!'

'The giant has stopped,' the young pilot said. 'He's waving us down.'


The pilots throttled back the engines and all nine helicopters landed safely on 
the great yellow
wasteland. Then each of them lowered a ramp from its belly. Nine jeeps, one 
from each helicopter, were
driven down the ramps. Each jeep contained six soldiers and a vast quantity of 
thick rope and heavy
chains.

'I don't see any giants,' the Head of the Army said.

'The giants is all just out of sight over there,' the BFG told him. 'But if you 
is taking these sloshbuckling
noisy bellypoppers any closer, all the giants is waking up at once and then pop 
goes the weasel.'

'So you want us to proceed by jeep?' the Head of the Army said.

'Yes,' the BFG said. 'But you must all be very very hushy quiet. No roaring of 
motors. No shouting. No
mucking about. No piggery-jokery.'

The BFG, with Sophie still in his ear, trotted forward and the jeeps followed 
close behind.

Suddenly the most dreadful rumbling noise was heard by everyone. The Head of 
the Army went pea-
green in the face. 'Those are guns!' he cried. 'There is a battle raging 
somewhere up ahead of us! Turn
back, the lot of you! Let's get out of here!'

'Pigspiffle!' the BFG said. 'Those noises is not guns.'

'Of course they're guns!' shouted the Head of the Army. 'I am a military man 
and I know a gun when I
hear one! Turn back!'

'Those is just the giants snortling in their sleep,' the BFG said. 'I is a 
giant myself and I know a giant's
snortle when I is hearing one.'

'Are you quite sure?' the Army man said anxiously.
'Positive,' the BFG said.

'Proceed cautiously,' the Army man ordered.
They all moved on.

Then they saw them!

Even at a distance, they were enough to scare the daylights out of the 
soldiers. But when they got close
and saw what the giants really looked like, they began to sweat with fear. Nine 
fearsome, ugly, half-
naked, fifty-feet-long brutes lay sprawled over the ground in various grotesque 
attitudes of sleep, and
the sound of their snoring was indeed like gunfire in a battle.

The BFG raised a hand. The jeeps all stopped. The soldiers got out.

'What happens if one of them wakes up?' whispered the Head of the Army, his 
knees knocking together
from fear.


'If any one of them is waking up, he will gobble you down before you can say 
knack jife,' the BFG
answered, grinning hugely. 'Me is the only one what won't be gobbled up because 
giants is never eating
giants. Me and Sophie is the only safe ones because I is hiding her if that 
happens.'

The Head of the Army took several paces to the rear. So did the Head of the Air 
Force. They climbed
rather quickly back into their jeep, ready to make a fast getaway if necessary. 
'Go forward, men!' the
Head of the Army said. 'Go forward and do your duty bravely!'

The soldiers crept forward with their ropes and chains. All of them were 
trembling mightily. None dared
speak a word.

The BFG, with Sophie now sitting on the palm of his hand, stood near by 
watching the operation.

To give the soldiers their due, they were extremely courageous. There were six 
well-trained efficient
men working on each giant and within ten minutes eight out of the nine giants 
had been trussed up like
chickens and were still snoring contentedly. The ninth, who happened to be the 
Fleshlumpeater, was
causing trouble for the soldiers because he was lying with his right arm tucked 
underneath his enormous
body. It was impossible to tie his wrists and arms together without first 
getting that arm out from
underneath him.


Very very cautiously, the six soldiers who were working on the Fleshlumpeater 
began to pull at the huge
arm, trying to release it. The Fleshlumpeater opened his tiny piggy black eyes.

'Which of you foulpesters is wiggling my arm?' he bellowed. 'Is that you, you 
rotsome Manhugger?'

Suddenly he saw the soldiers. In a flash, he was sitting up. He looked around 
him. He saw more soldiers.
With a roar, he leapt to his feet. The soldiers, petrified with fear, froze 
where they were. They had no
weapons with them. The Head of the Army put his jeep into reverse.

'Human beans!' the Flushlumpeater yelled. 'What is all you flushbunking rotsome 
half-baked beans
doing in our country?' He made a grab at a soldier and swept him up in his 
hand.

'I is having early suppers today!' he shouted, holding the poor squirming 
soldier at arm's length and
roaring with laughter.

Sophie, standing on the palm of the BFG's hand, was watching horrorstruck. 'Do 
something!' she cried.
'Quick, before he eats him!'

'Put that human bean down!' the BFG shouted.

The Fleshlumpeater turned and stared at the BFG. 'What is you doing here with 
all these grotty twiglets!'
he bellowed. 'You is making me very suspichy!'

The BFG made a rush at the Fleshlumpeater, but the colossal 
fifty-four-foot-high giant simply knocked
him over with a flick of his free arm. At the same time, Sophie fell off the 
BFG's palm on to the ground.


Her mind was racing. She must do something! She must! She must! She remembered 
the sapphire
brooch the Queen had pinned on to her chest. Quickly, she undid it.

'I is guzzling you nice and slow!' the Fleshlumpeater was saying to the soldier 
in his hand. 'Then I is
guzzling ten or twenty more of you midgy little maggots down there! You is not 
getting away from me
because I is galloping fifty times faster than you!'

Sophie ran up behind the Fleshlumpeater. She was holding the brooch between her 
fingers. When she
was right up close to the great naked hairy legs, she rammed the three-inch 
long pin of the brooch as
hard as she could into the Fleshlumpeater's right ankle. It went deep into the 
flesh and stayed there.

The giant gave a roar of pain and jumped high in the air. He dropped the 
soldier and made a grab for his
ankle.


The BFG, knowing what a coward the Fleshlumpeater was, saw his chance. 'You is 
bitten by a snake!' he
shouted. 'I seed it biting you! It was a frightsome poisnowse viper! It was a 
dreadly dungerous
vindscreen viper!'

'Save our souls!' bellowed the Fleshlumpeater. 'Sound the crumpets! I is bitten 
by a septicous
venomsome vindscreen viper!' He flopped to the ground and sat there howling his 
head off and
clutching       his ankle with both hands. His fingers felt the brooch. 'The 
teeth of the dreadly viper is still
sticking into me!' he yelled. 'I is feeling the teeth sticking into my anklet!'

The BFG saw his second chance. 'We must be getting those viper's teeth out at 
once!' he cried.
'Otherwise you is deader than duck-soup! I is helping you!'

The BFG knelt down beside the Fleshlumpeater. 'You must grab your anklet very 
tight with both hands!'
he ordered. 'That will stop the poisnowse juices from the venomsome viper going 
up your leg and into
your heart!'

The Fleshlumpeater grabbed his ankle with both hands.

'Now close your eyes and grittle your teeth and look up to heaven and say your 
prayers while I is taking
out the teeth of the venomsome viper,' the BFG said.

The terrified Fleshlumpeater did exactly as he was told.

The BFG signalled for some rope. A soldier rushed it over to him. With both the 
Fleshlumpeater's hands
gripping his ankle, it was a simple matter for the BFG to tie the ankles and 
hands together with a tight
knot.

'I is pulling out the frightsome viper's teeth!' the BFG said as he pulled the 
knot tight.
'Do it quickly!' shouted the Fleshlumpeater, 'before I is pizzened to death!'

'There we is,' said the BFG, standing up. 'You can look now.'


When the Fleshlumpeater saw that he was trussed up like a turkey, he gave a 
yell so loud that the
heavens trembled. He rolled and he wriggled, he fought and he figgled, he 
squirmed and he squiggled.
But there was not a thing he could do.

'Well done you!' Sophie cried.

'Well done you!' said the BFG, smiling down at the little girl. 'You is saving 
all of our lives!'
'Will you please get that brooch back for me,' Sophie said. 'It belongs to the 
Queen.'

The BFG pulled the beautiful brooch out of the Fleshlumpeater's ankle. The 
Fleshlumpeater howled. The
BFG wiped the pin and handed it back to Sophie.

Curiously, not one of the other eight snoring giants had woken up during this 
shimozzle. 'When you is
only sleeping one or two hours a day, you is sleeping extra doubly deep,' the 
BFG explained.

The Heads of the Army and the Air Force drove forward once again in their jeep. 
'Her Majesty will be
very pleased with me,' the Head of the Army said. 'I shall probably get a 
medal. What's the next move?'

'Now you is all driving over to my cave to load up my bottles of dreams,' the 
BFG said.
'We can't waste time with that rubbish,' the Army General said.

'It is the Queen's order,' Sophie said. She was now back on the BFG's hand.

So the nine jeeps drove across to the BFG's cave and the great dream-loading 
operation began. There
were fifty-thousand jars in all to be loaded up, more than five thousand to 
each jeep, and it took over an
hour to finish the job.


While the soldiers were loading the dreams, the BFG and Sophie disappeared over 
the mountains on a
mysterious errand. When they came back, the BFG had a sack the size of a small 
house slung over his
shoulder.

'What's that you've got in there?' the Head of the Army demanded to know.
'Curiosity is killing the rat,' the BFG said, and he turned away from the silly 
man.

When he was sure that all his precious dreams had been safely loaded on to the 
jeeps, the BFG said,
'Now we is driving back to the bellypoppers and picking up the frightsome 
giants.'

The jeeps drove back to the helicopters. The fifty thousand dreams were carried 
carefully, jar by jar, on
to the helicopters. The soldiers climbed back on board, but the BFG and Sophie 
stayed on the ground.
Then they all returned to where the nine giants were lying.

It was a fine sight to see them, these great air machines hovering over the 
trussed-up giants. It was an
even finer sight to see the giants being woken up by the terrific thundering of 
the engines overhead, and
the finest sight of all was to observe those nine hideous brutes squirming and 
twisting about on the
ground like a mass of mighty snakes as they tried to free themselves from their 
ropes and chains.

'I is flushbunkled!' roared the Fleshlumpeater.
'I is splitzwiggled!' yelled the Childchewer.


'I is swogswalloped!' bellowed the Bonecruncher.
'I is goosegruggled!' howled the Manhugger.

'I is gunzleswiped!' shouted the Meatdripper.
'I is fluckgungled!' screamed the Maidmasher.

'I is slopgroggled!' squawked the Gizzardgulper.
'I is crodsquinkled!' yowled the Bloodbottler.

'I is bopmuggered!' screeched the Butcher Boy.

The nine giant-carrying helicopters each chose a separate giant and hovered 
directly over him. Very
strong steel hawsers with hooks on the ends of them were lowered from the front 
and rear of each
helicopter. The BFG quickly secured the hooks to the giants' chains, one hook 
near the legs and the
other         near the arms. Then very slowly, the giants were winched up into 
the air, parallel with the ground.
The giants roared and bellowed, but there was nothing they could do.


The BFG, with Sophie once more resting comfortably in his ear, set off at a 
gallop for England. The
helicopters all banked around and followed after him.

It was an amazing spectacle, those nine helicopters winging through the sky, 
each with a trussed-up
fifty-foot-long giant slung underneath it. The giants themselves must have 
found it an interesting
experience.   They never stopped bellowing, but their howls were drowned by the 
noise of the engines.

When it began to get dark, the helicopters switched on powerful searchlights 
and trained them on to
the galloping giant so as to keep him in sight. They flew right through the 
night and arrived in England
just as dawn was breaking.


Feeding Time

While the giants were being captured, a tremendous bustle and hustle was going 
on back home in
England. Every earth-digger and mechanical contrivance in the country had been 
mobilized to dig the
colossal hole in which the nine giants were to be permanently imprisoned.

Ten thousand men and ten thousand machines worked ceaselessly through the night 
under powerful
arc-lights, and the massive task was completed only just in time.

The hole itself was about twice the size of a football field and five hundred 
feet deep. The walls were
perpendicular and engineers had calculated that there was no way a giant could 
escape once he was put


in. Even if all nine giants were to stand on each other's shoulders, the 
topmost giant would still be some
fifty feet from the top of the hole.

The nine giant-carrying helicopters hovered over the massive pit. The giants, 
one by one, were lowered
to the floor. But they were still trussed up and now came the tricky business 
of releasing them from
their bonds. Nobody wanted to go down and do this because the moment a giant 
was freed, he would
be sure to turn on the wretched person who had freed him and gobble him up.

As usual, the BFG had the answer. 'I has told you before,' he said, 'giants is 
never eating giants, so I is
going down and I shall untie them myself before you can say rack jobinson.'

With thousands of fascinated spectators, including the Queen, peering down into 
the pit, the BFG was
lowered on a rope. One by one, he released the giants. They stood up, stretched 
their stiffened limbs
and started leaping about in fury.


'Why is they putting us down here in this grobsludging hole?' they shouted at 
the BFG.

'Because you is guzzling human beans,' the BFG answered. 'I is always warning 
you not to do it and you
is never taking the titchiest bit of notice.'

'In that case,' the Fleshlumpeater bellowed, 'I think we is guzzling you 
instead!'
The BFG grabbed the dangling rope and was hoisted out of the pit just in time.

The great bulging sack he had brought back with him from Giant Country lay at 
the top of the pit.
'What's in there?' the Queen asked him.

The BFG put an arm into the sack and pulled out a gigantic black and white 
striped object the size of a
man.

'Snozzcumbers!' he cried. 'This is the repulsant snozzcumber, Majester, and 
that is all we is going to give
these disgustive giants from now on!'

'May I taste it?' the Queen asked.

'Don't, Majester, don't!' cried the BFG. 'It is tasting of trogfilth and 
pigsquibble!' With that he tossed the
snozzcumber down to the giants below. 'There's your supper!' he shouted. 'Have 
a munch on that!' He
fished out more snozzcumbers from the sack and threw them down. The giants 
below howled and
cursed. The BFG laughed. 'It serves them right left and centre!' he said.

'What will we feed them on when the snozzcumbers are all used up?' the Queen 
asked him.

'They is never being used up, Majester,' the BFG answered, smiling. 'I is also 
bringing in this sack a whole
bungle of snozzcumber plants which I is giving, with your permission, to the 
royal gardener to put in the
soil. Then we is having an everlasting supply of this repulsant food to feed 
these thirstbloody giants on.'

'What a clever fellow you are,' the Queen said. 'You are not very well educated 
but you are really
nobody's fool, I can see that.'


The Author

Every country in the world that had in the past been visited by the foul 
man-eating giants sent telegrams
of congratulations and thanks to the BFG and to Sophie. Kings and Presidents 
and Prime Ministers and
Rulers of every kind showered the enormous giant and the little girl with 
compliments and thank-yous,
as well as all sorts of medals and presents.

The Ruler of India sent the BFG a magnificent elephant, the very thing he had 
been wishing for all his
life.

The King of Arabia sent them a camel each.
The Lama of Tibet sent them a llama each.

Wellington sent them one hundred pairs of wellies each.
Panama sent them beautiful hats.

The King of Sweden sent them a barrelful of sweet and sour pork.
Jersey sent them pullovers.

There was no end to the gratitude of the world.

The Queen herself gave orders that a special house with tremendous high 
ceilings and enormous doors
should immediately be built in Windsor Great Park, next to her own castle, for 
the BFG to live in. And a


pretty little cottage was put up next door for Sophie. The BFG's house was to 
have a special dream-
storing room with hundreds of shelves in it where he could put his beloved 
bottles. What is more, he
was given the title of The Royal Dream-Blower. He was allowed to go galloping 
off to any place in
England on any night of the year to blow his splendid phizzwizards in through 
the windows to sleeping
children. And letters poured into his house by the million from children 
begging him to pay them a visit.

Meanwhile, tourists from all over the globe came flocking to gaze down in 
wonder at the nine
horrendous man-eating giants in the great pit. They came especially at 
feeding-time, when the
snozzcumbers  were being thrown down to them by the keeper, and it was a 
pleasure to listen to the
howls              and growls of horror coming up from the pit as the giants 
began to chew upon the filthiest-tasting
vegetable on earth.

There was only one disaster. Three silly men who had drunk too much beer for 
lunch decided to climb
over the high fence surrounding the pit, and of course they fell in. There were 
yells of delight from the
giants below, followed by the crunching of bones. The head keeper immediately 
put up a big notice on
the fence saying, IT IS FORBIDDEN TO FEED THE GIANTS. And after that, there 
were no more disasters.

The BFG expressed a wish to learn how to speak properly, and Sophie herself, 
who loved him as she
would a father, volunteered to give him lessons every day. She even taught him 
how to spell and to


write sentences, and he turned out to be a splendid intelligent pupil. In his 
spare time, he read books.
He became a tremendous reader. He read all of Charles Dickens (whom he no 
longer called Dahl's
Chickens), and all of Shakespeare and literally thousands of other books. He 
also started to write essays
about  his own past life. When Sophie read some of them, she said, 'These are 
very good. I think perhaps
one day you could become a real writer.'

'Oh, I would love that!' cried the BFG. 'Do you think I could?'

'I know you could,' Sophie said. 'Why don't you start by writing a book about 
you and me?'
'Very well,' the BFG said. 'I'll give it a try.'

So he did. He worked hard on it and in the end he completed it. Rather shyly, 
he showed it to the
Queen. The Queen read it aloud to her grandchildren. Then the Queen said, 'I 
think we ought to get this
book printed properly and published so that other children can read it.' This 
was arranged, but because
the BFG was a very modest giant, he wouldn't put his own name on it. He used 
somebody else's name
instead.

But where, you might ask, is this book that the BFG wrote?
It's right here. You've just finished reading it.

